I'm sorry.
No change.
Thank you.
Last but not least.
<UNK>.
For laughs, <UNK>.
If I understand the question, let me see if I can address that.
So the current hiring as I mentioned allows for future attrition and extra board activity.
So the current hiring path provides for some of that cushion if you will.
The productivity gains that we should see with the length of train should decrease the overall requirement, but as <UNK> mentioned, there's some volume that did move because of service.
So for me, right size give us cushion on the extra boards for unforeseens or outages and then continue to scale appropriately with the volume knowing that we're going to have some efficiency gains on length of train.
I think the key driver, <UNK>, is the reduction in train starts to move the same volume.
So you're going to get some incremental revenue on that basis when you can add 25% to the same train.
That's a pretty good swing.
I would look more that it's going to enable us to handle the growing volume.
And so again, as Dave mentioned, running a 25% more trains, that's more trains for about the price of three.
And that's also going to help congestion and the overall capacity of that line being able to handle more volume.
Lazaro had some good volume this year.
Sure, all negotiations are both ways, but it's things.
For example, on the longer trains, the 3000-meter trains, we will add additional brakeman, which is something we probably want to do anyway for the overall safety of the operations and the flow of those.
So in addition to those numbers the efficiencies you've added additional labor and small additional labor need on some of those trains, but should be more than offset with the productivity gains on the length of train.
The other thing too, <UNK>, there's some of the lengths we got because of the locomotive usage that you actually upsized the train and you don't get into the third or the third crewman.
So there's -- you've got to get out almost to the max to get out to that third crewman.
So these first trains we're adding out of Lazaro don't even get to the third crew member.
Thank you.
That concludes our call for today, so thank you and we will see you next quarter.
