Okay.
So in terms of turnover, the first step has been to do an assessment of the sales team.
It's been a great sales force in this marketplace with kind of a unique burden historically having the broadest product line in home medical equipment.
Many of our competitors have a sales force that just are expert in the one area where they participate in.
And our team is said to be experts in durable medical equipments, in respiratory care and complex rehab.
So it makes sense going forward and hopefully it sounds obvious that we've got to align people's talents with the market opportunity where they are situated and then globally, or at least in North America, look at how we're aligned in terms of people in a geography and opportunity.
So, [that is what is] going on or has been going on and the training continues to happen, as I mentioned earlier in the call, will continue ad nauseam that's akin to any profession where you have got the equivalent of continuing education credits that have to be part of someone's normal career curriculum.
In terms of turnover, it's a sales force, you have natural turnover.
There's been nothing extraordinary.
So, it's really about alignment and then like any good sales force, you've got a performance plan that everybody has got to meet.
So, I think that's normal.
And then, your second question was when will this matriculate to the P&L.
I think if you think of the biggest emphasis or shift being unequivocally complex, that's the part of our business that maybe has the longest quote to cash cycle time because remember for everybody's benefit, you typically get a quote for a complex wheelchair, then there is a period of time where our customers go to the reimbursement source to verify that the product will be reimbursed.
That might take 90 to 120 days and we have a little bit of time to manufacture and deliver the product.
And then you're into normal accounts receivable duration of a couple of months.
So, that whole cycle is relatively long and it'll take more or less that amount of time for the solid results to show up in our financial statements although I think on a smaller scale, we're having some early wins as a result of confirming this is the right step.
<UNK>, I'll try to give you some insight on that, but I'll preface it by saying, I'm going to focus on the euro is the most important currency, but they is a lot of currencies we manage over there and a lot of cross currencies.
So, there is some noise that we managed and it's important to manage.
But I'll give you the euro as an indicator.
If I go back to third quarter 2014, the euro averaged during that quarter, and again we have a lag period, so it's different than the calendar year, third quarter it was $1.35.
Fourth quarter was $1.27.
So you're right, it was starting to come down at fourth quarter.
First quarter was a $1.18, second quarter it was $1.09 and third quarter it's $1.11.
So we came back a little between second and third quarter 2015.
But we've still -- today I think it's trading $1.13.
So we still got a little pain clearly against fourth quarter last year and even against first quarter 2015 when it was $1.18.
But we're starting to chip away at that and obviously it's something that we try to manage well on the transaction front, but on the translation, I mean we're exposed.
Thank you and thanks everybody for your time and attention during today's call and support for Invacare.
<UNK>, <UNK>, and I are available for any follow-up questions.
Hope you have a good day.
Thank you.
