Thank you.
I think it varies, <UNK>, brand by brand.
What we do is we look at the entry-level price point for our competitive set.
We look at what is the out-the-door price for a lot of this product and see how we can become competitive.
And that's basically what Justice did when they developed style buys, and virtually all of our brands are taking a look at this approach and seeing how it might apply to them on perhaps a smaller scale, but still have those compelling price points to get the customer as a gateway product into the store, liking the quality, liking the fashion touches.
But then really using that as a way to get her to build her basket to include other more fashion-oriented items.
Again, <UNK>, it's going to be a case by case by brand.
But what I would tell you overall is that we're always going to plan on the more lean side, because we feel it's much easier to chase.
If you ever played baseball, my coach always told me to run back when you heard the crack, because it's always easier to run in for a fly ball than to run back for it, and that's how we view our inventory management.
And <UNK>, we're likely to take some bets where we know we were lean last year.
We know that during back-to-school we were light at Justice.
We broke, inventory broke.
We had to chase.
We couldn't get back in fast enough.
There will be selective areas where we're going to take bets.
Back-to-school would be one at Justice.
You also know from recent calls that we said we were a little light on inventory going into the holiday with Justice.
There are selected periods where we will take bets, but they're very informed bets based on areas we knew we were out of stock and didn't have enough to do business this past year.
Otherwise, you should expect it to remain conservative on the inventory front.
Sure.
Justice is going through a transition.
As you may recall, <UNK>, if you were on our last call, we've got a terrific new woman, Sara Tervo, at Justice, and she's gearing up a terrific plan for back-to-school, which is, as you know a critical season for us.
Justice will be very heavy in social media.
We're not ready to reveal it yet, but it's one of these stay tuned.
You'll see a lot of things that I think you'll be impressed with.
So that's going to be a big push at Justice, and once we make that, that will be something we do on a more ongoing basis.
We're reinventing our marketing at Justice under Sara's leadership, and as she's built her team, she is developing a lot of these new programs, we're really doing a big bang reveal for back-to-school.
In terms of the other brands, I would tell you that our social media can always get better.
But I would suggest that it is pretty well developed across all of our brands.
Depending on which brand, we have different programs underway.
But we've seen a shift in ollars and attention from more traditional advertising to social media, because we've seen -- as we've gotten better at doing it, we've seen improved results and that will continue.
Well, it's a little harder to tell.
Certainly online, you can tell or it's easier to tell on click-throughs.
But it's a little harder to tell if someone comes in the store, what drove them into the store.
I just think that's more along the lines of the more modern aesthetic that Ann is.
I think in the past, there have been some more traditional fit and they're evolving it to be a bit more of a modern aesthetic.
They've been evolving their fit and yes, it is a better fit than it was a couple years ago.
So, yes, we are looking for a more modern aesthetic.
Thanks, <UNK>, appreciate your call, your questions.
Certainly, as we mentioned earlier in the call, <UNK>, that LOFT has really had a very, very strong season, very pleased with what they're doing.
So I would say they're above our expectation.
Ann is pretty much in line with our expectation, as is the ability to generate the synergies and the cost savings that we've been talking about for about a year now.
That's coming in, as <UNK> said, pretty much right on plan.
So I'd agree with your comment that Ann is the area that we see the most upside for.
Thank you very much for taking the time to listen to our call today.
