Yes, and on RCM, we are expecting it to look -- in 2017, we expect it to look a lot like what you are see in Q4 as opposed to the previous number of double-digit growth.
And just to put a little color on that, what I'd say is, this is where you should start to see over time our work on client satisfaction and client experience really start to take hold.
And one of the first things that I said, when I came into the organization is, I am absolute laser-focused on building a great client experience and great client value not just because that's our accountability and responsibility to our clients, but also because that creates opportunity for us to bring a greater breadth of solution to them.
We continue to make progress on our voice of client.
We had a great meeting with our large client user group just two weeks ago.
Certainly, there is ups and downs, but the general trend is actually very positive and we feel like, as we continue to make that progress, it will create a better landing zone, both for our solution selling of RCM, but also for anything else that we bring to the table.
Capitalized software was $3.1 million in the quarter.
Yes, so what I would say, <UNK> is, first of all, it's driving margin into the business, which means really making the business more scalable rather than necessarily looking at as the cost reduction target.
But, yes, we have started to really do the process mapping to make sure that that process continues to be standardized and more efficient.
We are starting to bring technology development to the table to continue to automate more, but this is not an instant thing where we are going to wave our magic wand and take cost out.
This is making the operation more efficient, while still preserving the great high touch relationship we have with the clients, which has once again put us in a best-in-class position in the RCM market.
And so what I would say is these aren't things that will show up immediately, these are things that will show up over time, because we are very cognizant of the fact that our clients depend heavily on our best-in-class service and we want to make sure that as we continue to automate it we don't lose what it made it great.
They should start to get higher than they are.
I think that's what we are really willing to talk about at this point.
I think, let and then this comes back to credibility, right, when I have a plan in front of me that I know I can execute, not just an idea, but a plan that I know I can execute, I know we are going to deliver on at that point in time, then we will start to let our optimism bleed through into the investor community and tell them, we are going to keep our optimism to ourselves.
Thank you.
It does.
No.
It wouldn't be the way to think about bookings.
I think, let's back up, I think they were doing about $35 million for last year, is the number.
So it's not the $43 million that I think is what is required for the earn out and the bookings would only be new contracts, not the renewals of existing contracts.
But the number .
bookings number is much less than $10 million a quarter.
Yes.
Thank you, <UNK>.
Give a second.
I'm going through numbers in my fingers, but that's one of them.
It's just under $4 million for the quarter.
Well, thanks everybody.
Appreciate your participation today.
It was a short set of announcements, but that's primarily driven by the fact that we had a long conversation with you less than four weeks ago.
We as an organization continue to make a tremendous of progress quickly.
We are excited as we move forward to continue to share that progress with you, most notably, at the Analyst Day in June in New York City.
And until then, have a great couple of weeks and we will look forward to seeing you all.
Thank you.
