I would say at this point it's not substantially different right now.
I would -- I'd kind of keep the margins the same for the business.
As we continue to work through things, if that changes, we'll let you know.
Hut I think of it as even right now.
You know, from where we sit today, I would say there's probably -- we talked about this a little bit -- there's going to be a little bit of a gap, I would say, in the back-half of the year.
We've had revenue pull in more in the first quarter.
We expect it to stabilize a little bit in the second quarter.
And then that revenue that came in, we'll probably see a lower growth rate in the back-half of the year, as new design wins start to take off later in the year and into 2017.
So, on the first part of your question, yes, I would say Q2 is -- I would think of Q2 as the low point as we expect it to be accretive ex-amortization in the second-half.
I think give us a little time on 2017.
I think it's a couple of issues.
I'd say one it's -- we really have to figure out what the amortization expense is going to be.
We are still four weeks, six weeks into the close.
We are in the early stages of what I call the purchase accounting, to figure out what the amortization expense is going to look like.
We've been estimating about $0.50 for the year.
I don't know what that's going to look like, so it's hard to tell you where we are going to hit that rate with amortization expense right now.
Sure.
We -- so I'd say maybe a couple things.
One is, we had talked about using, for the purchase, about half -- half of the purchase is going to be funded with offshore cash; half with debt, which is generally where we ended up on that.
If the question is really, hey, your Q1 interest expense looks high, because we put the new credit facility in place, we had some fees related to the old facility that we had to amortize.
And so that impacted the Q1 interest expense.
Yes, I think that's pretty good.
Thank you.
Oh, the vast majority, probably more than 80%, I would say is the resettable fuse technology that's really been there.
Their core technology, and while they've got some other products around it, that's what we're really talking about when we are talking about particularly the battery protection and the automotive protection.
I think we are still in the early days of really trying to evaluate that.
We've only had a few weeks of owning the business and really being able to talk to customers and talk to distribution channels.
I think we are pretty comfortable saying it's sort of in the -- at the moment that it's in the 40s' per quarter, sort of the 160's that <UNK> mentioned.
And we think we are going to take most of this correction in the second quarter.
From a topline perspective overall.
I mean you know, our guess is in the $5 million to $10 million, maybe a little closer to the $10 million range this year.
Yes, I think the few big pieces that we had talked about -- so as you mentioned, the reed switch transfer, moving the production to the Philippines, so that's in process.
It's on track.
We'll start to see some of the benefits here in the second quarter, but definitely the back-half of the year.
So that's still assumed for our forecast, and we are expecting that to come through.
We had talked about between that.
And I think the other one that you were referring to the -- in the Industrial segment, this manufacturing transfer related to our relay business, that one we did complete.
We started up production in our existing facility.
And that's one we've had just the manufacturing efficiencies with the startup process.
So, I'd say look for the benefits on that really also starting in the back-half of the year.
Between those two, it's been about $6.5 million.
So -- go ahead.
Yes.
You know what.
Let me -- I just don't have it at my fingertips.
Let me come back to you on depreciation.
But I would say with SG&A, just keep in mind with the Q2, as we talked about, there's a little bit of a hiccup in the run rate in there.
We've got an extra $2 million coming through in the second quarter relating to the stock compensation expense.
So that's, as you are looking at a Q1 or Q2 run rate, I believe Q2 ex that is a good run rate for the rest of the year.
Yes.
So we've been looking at the pieces.
It's a little choppy, honestly, which is why we've tried to bifurcate the two.
Because with PolySwitch, as we talked about, when we are exiting the transition service agreements, we've got to build up our expense infrastructure first to take on all the back office work.
And at the same time, we are still paying for the transition service agreements, which we'll start exiting.
So we've been looking at it separately, and we don't really have what I would call a run rate at this point on the PolySwitch business on expenses.
I think it will be 2017 before we get into what I would consider more a normalized run rate.
Thank you for joining us on today's call.
2016 is off to a very good start.
And while we did not perform up to our expectations in a few areas, as many of you know, we have a solid track record of improving performance and achieving operational excellence.
We are addressing the issues in these areas, and we look forward to updating you on the progress next quarter.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
