The goal we established was last year, and we said from Q3 2016 to this going out rate of Q4 2017 we'd save a gross $400 million.
And then after some strategic investments, which include SolidFire, it would be a net of $130 million.
If you impute my guide for OpEx, you can almost get there on an annualized rate between Q3 OpEx of 2016 annualized and the guide I gave for Q4.
You can almost get to the whole $130 million.
And when you add the savings associated with the services work we've done, you can more than get there.
I haven't guided -- we haven't guided anything beyond that at this point.
But as I said, transformation will still exist as we go forward.
Thanks, <UNK>.
I think in both of those cases our perspective is the long-term winner as we have demonstrated in the All-Flash Array market is the one that can take an architecture and serve the mainstream customer segment.
There have been lots of companies that have gone after the early adopter segment with a subset of the features that enterprise customers really want and have failed in the long run.
And so first to market doesn't necessarily mean the big winner, right.
I think what we are trying to do with the hyperconverged segment is the same track record that we've demonstrated with the All-Flash Array segment, which is customers want mature enterprise data management features.
They want performance consistency and scalability so that they don't have to have operationally a siloed environment.
And hybrid cloud is really the architecture of the data center going forward, and they want true hybrid cloud integration.
So we think that by offering those capabilities to customers, we will redefine the hyperconverged market, just like we did to the All-Flash Array market.
Stay tuned.
Thanks, <UNK>.
The transformation of NetApp is yielding solid results with a return to top line growth and increasing profitability.
We are expanding our opportunity by addressing an increasing range of strategic customer use cases.
We've completely refreshed our portfolio of hybrid and All-Flash Arrays, delivered an industry leading storage efficiency guarantee to the market, expanding our cloud based services and soon we will introduce a next generation hyperconverged solution.
All of this underpins our growing confidence in the future.
We hope to see you in April at our investor event where with will talk more about the evolution of NetApp to lead in the next era of IT.
Thank you.
