Hello, <UNK>.
Thanks for the question.
Last year was a really epic and important year for us.
In addition to celebrating our 25th anniversary, we posted record results and had more people playing Blizzard games than ever before.
We're very grateful for the passion and support of our players, and our commitment to delivering awesome content to them has never been stronger.
So, with that in mind, we have put in a significant effort into being able to support the type of longer-term engagement that Blizzard games have always delivered, but doing so now across more games on more platforms and in more regions.
So, we've really had to scale up our organizational capabilities to do that.
This year, we will have compelling new content across all of our franchises as well as continuing to expand beyond the games with things like comics, animated shorts, and more.
In addition, we are always thinking about new game ideas, and we have several in the prototype phase.
But, not able to talk about those right now.
As I mentioned before, the Overwatch League also represents new business and engagement opportunities for us this year and beyond.
And, that is going to be a big focus for us as well.
Great question, <UNK>.
I actually think it was a very important milestone for esports.
It is a large-scale broadcast commitment, and I think it really demonstrates how valuable our content can be as spectator content.
I think when we look at what the opportunity is for professionally produced content, and as <UNK> pointed out, city-based competition around the world, which there really isn't an analog to.
We think that if you look at where advertisers want to spend their capital, where sponsors want to spend their capital, it is very difficult to reach 18 to 35 year-old males today, and this programming is incredibly compelling.
People are watching it largely as user-generated content today.
But, we think the professionally produced content will have tremendous value.
We think this is going to be a big area of opportunity again to strengthen our franchises, but probably most importantly to really celebrate our players.
Because if you think about the player investment that our players make -- the time, the commitment.
This is a great opportunity for us to showcase and celebrate our professional players, and we think there is going to be large audiences and large numbers of advertisers willing to support those efforts.
All right.
Thank you everyone for joining us today, and we'll look forward to talking to you again in early May.
