Yes, I mean, basically Nanosphere have developed their own system.
They had their own timeline.
We had our own timeline.
We are validating now their timeline and ARIES function before the acquisition.
At this stage I don't want to provide a timeline but again it's not something far away.
They have a system but I would rather wait with the timeline still would be 100% that we can both execute on this timeline (inaudible).
So again it is probably not too long we will speak about the timeline.
Yes.
So nothing was pulled into the first half, to use your words.
It was pure partner timing.
I think that we were -- we received orders in the first half that were anticipated to come in the second half, and that actually affected some of the timing around consumables.
I mentioned consumables were expected to be down slightly in the back half of the year as a result of some of those timings.
What actually we see in the quarterly guidance is that we -- if you take the $13 million to $16 million of Nanosphere and you back that out of the $261 million to $269 million number that we provided, what you end up with is a increase in the bottom of the range modestly, but then cutting a little bit of the top of the range off as well.
So it was a narrowing of the range of the Luminex only -- which, I guess, when you average it right, you end up with a smaller number in the middle.
But we really didn't take down overall expectations for the business.
What we did is we resolve issues at the end of the year -- for instance, clarity on Lab Core's ultimate departure caused us to be able to moderate that top end of the range.
Things like that provided -- we're halfway through the year, right.
And so we have significantly better clarity there.
Sure.
We are in the midst of the work on integrating the sales force.
I don't think we are going to send people home.
I think with the performance in our sales force and the excellent performance of Nanosphere sales force, we'll combine the sales force -- obviously under one management, but we'll combine the sales force.
And we will continue to get there.
At the MDx, we will have about 44 -- 45 people carrying close to $130 million of the pull-backs.
So that's I think a very productive sales force.
What we are doing in there if you think about the synergy, that Luminex was planning to beef up -- and we're starting actually this part of the year in anticipation to continue to grow -- but our plan was to hire additional salespeople to Luminex to help us continue of the penetration of the market with ARIES and et cetera.
So we are not going to hire an additional salespeople but that's the synergy we have.
But overall, combining the sales force, it's a great team; very motivated to the sales force.
We have great comments for the salespeople as well as customers.
So we are feeling very good in the direction with this integration.
No, I mean, but you're right -- we listen here to customers.
One of the most important things that we are working in Luminex is to listen to what our customers are asking for, and they ask for lower throughput systems for the satellite.
But beyond that, when you look at the system, it's giving us really a great opportunity.
Also as I keep saying, we are in the business of making money.
And compared to some of our competitors here.
And this one is lowering our costs because we are giving systems away, so it's giving us a very good introduction at the lower cost to our customer without really putting too much -- talking too much money out of our pockets.
So again, as I keep saying, it's another offering.
Our salespeople have to have more items in the bags and that's what we are getting in order to excite the customer -- exciting to each of the customer what feed their needs.
So -- this is <UNK>.
Let me help you out a little bit there.
So, with respect to CF being incorporated into a much bigger panel or overall genetic screening, the only way that that really is going to happen is if reimbursement is established for full genetic screenings that amount to a search, if you will, for -- I won't call it buried treasure, but certainly a search for things that exists in the genome that aren't apparent initially.
Today the way CF is reimbursed, it would be difficult to do that.
However, as the market ultimately moves there as the cost of an overall genetic screen comes down significantly, the likelihood that overall CF moves to absolutely -- entirely a technology like NGS is not unheard of.
I mean, we certainly can see that happening in the long-term.
But reimbursement is what's going to drive a shift from a CF panel to an overall genetic panel being able to get paid for the work that you do.
Yes, but also we need to remember in Lab Core, it's totally different because it's Lab Core, it's so big.
We see a lot of smaller customers embracing our technology now.
Why.
Because they are not planning to have NGS; it's too expensive to them, and we provide them the perfect solution with what we have now, with the panel we have now.
So, right, again part of the overall offering to our customer.
You bet.
Thank you, Abigail, and thank you for everyone for your attendance today.
We look forward to seeing you in person in the very near future.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
