I think it's -- from where we're seeing and talking to some of the pundits that are out there or both, so I just look at the backlog, or if you will, the pipeline.
We've gone through our Q1 planning, and what's out there for that as well as talking to some of the folks that we talk to on a regular basis as to what they're being asked for regarding the consulting work that they do for organizations that are thinking about doing a new system selection.
It's probably 50/50 between large hospitals, medium-size hospitals on the acute-care side.
And then on the ambulatory side, there's an interestingly robust set of activities in that regard as well.
In some cases, as I said earlier, it's because people are saying I'm not going to be as aggressive on my R&D spend, and in other cases, they're raising their hand and said I'm not going to really be accountable for ongoing government regulations, whether it's MACRA or some of these other things that are out there that are requirements in 2017 and 2018.
Thanks, <UNK>.
We're here.
Go ahead, <UNK>.
Did we lose him.
If we've lost him, then actually we'll need to conclude.
Do you have anyone else, Tim, in queue, or no.
Is that it.
They are baked in, but they're minimal relative to the overall growth.
Importantly, as we said, even with that core Allscripts business, it's going to produce in the mid-single digits.
<UNK>, just to be clear, you're talking about the ones we did in Q4 as opposed to Netsmart, right.
Top line.
You are not far.
Yes, you're in the ZIP code.
You're welcome.
Great.
Thanks everybody for joining us today.
To sum up, we had an excellent 2016.
Financial results continue to improve with accelerating revenue growth, excellent bookings, improving margins and sustainable cash flow.
Strategically, we've made multi-year investments in solutions, repositioned Allscripts with a strong fundamental core with multiple growth platforms for global expansion.
I want to thank Allscripts associates for their hard work and dedication.
They are driven by a solid vision and a culture of accountability and a passion for our clients' success.
We are dedicated to rewarding the confidence that clients and shareholders have placed in us with strong performance.
We will be holding an investor event in New York on March 21.
Look for invitations and webcast details shortly.
We will see many of you in Orlando next week.
Have a great evening.
