I'm smiling, and I may turn this over to <UNK>.
We've all actually visited our Bixby store in Long Beach over the last few weeks.
The store really captures the best of Target in a smaller, 30,000-square-foot environment.
And very positive reaction from the guest.
So as we think about future flex formats, that is a model that we're excited about, a model that certainly seems to be connecting with the guest, and you should expect to see more of those as we go forward.
But let me hand it over to <UNK> who's been intimately involved in the roll-out of flex formats and, specifically, the work we're doing in Long Beach.
Just to finish up on that, <UNK>, I think the Long Beach store that you visited is a great example that really shows how we're approaching each of these initiatives.
We are testing, we're learning, we're refining.
The team's getting better and better at layout and assortment, and you've seen that when you walk the Long Beach location.
And the feedback that we've received from the guest is, even in a smaller box, it feels like Target.
And it feels like the best of Target.
The work that the team's done in the center of that store to merchandise our soft lines is really outstanding.
We're getting great feedback around our food presentation in that store.
We've got the right home assortment.
So we're tailoring that for the local market.
But it's an example of the fact that we've been disciplined.
We're not sprinting, we're making sure that we're really thoughtful.
We're learning.
We're adjusting.
And you're seeing each of the new flex formats get better and better in layout, assortment, and tailoring to meet the local market.
So, we are very excited about it, and we'll continue to take that learning and build it into new flex formats that we'll be opening up over the balance of this year and into next year.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Well, <UNK>, as you might imagine, we're spending a lot of time, and have spent a lot of time, as a team looking at performance from a number of different vantage points, both internally, but also certainly incorporating external data.
Certainly it was an earlier Easter.
We recognize the impact of that.
Certainly weather in many major markets has been a factor.
It's not an excuse.
We've got to figure out how we perform under any circumstances.
We know, as the guest and our consumer has moved through the course of 2016, prices at the pump, fuel prices have risen, and that's certainly an impact.
And then when we look at a macro basis on overall spending, we certainly recognize that consumers are spending more on travel, on leisure activities, they've been investing in their homes, as I mentioned before.
But there's no structural change that gives us pause and has us changing our strategy, altering our outlook for the full year.
We think -- we're continuing to improve our digital capabilities.
I think our store experience is improving each and every week.
The response we're getting from the guest based on changes we made in apparel and home, and recently in food, are very encouraging.
As <UNK> mentioned, our flex format's performing quite well.
So we feel confident that the content we have in place, the plans we have for the second half of the year, some of the enhancements we've made from a branding and in-store and online standpoint are going to continue to deliver solid results.
So we see this as a momentary speed bump, but we see no reason to alter our strategy.
These are tactical adjustments we have to make.
And, market by market, we've got to make sure we're well positioned to compete going forward.
Thank you.
We've got time for one more question, operator.
So we, obviously, have insight into where May is at today, and then we've got Memorial Day coming.
We've got great plans around -- leading into Memorial Day and have every confidence we're going to have guests come to Target, whether in our stores or online.
And then, summer and warmer weather will come, and so we have an expectation that the trend we see today doesn't change overnight.
But it does improve throughout the quarter because we've got some really great plans to deliver for our guests.
And then also, in the latter part of this quarter, we have Cat & Jack launching, and we're very excited about Cat & Jack launching before back-to-school season.
And we expect that to be a leading Target-only brand that will be a $1 billion brand in time.
So, <UNK>, thanks for your question.
And I really appreciate everyone who called in today.
We tried to make sure we allotted significant time for your questions.
Hopefully, we had a chance to answer your questions, address some of your concerns.
So, that will conclude our quarter.
I appreciate your time today and thank you for dialing in.
