Yes, Easter for us, <UNK>, is a reasonably small holiday.
So, order of magnitude, we're talking about maybe $10 million of revenue.
That's on a consolidated basis, by the way.
We did not buy shares in terms of our share repurchase program during the first quarter.
The Board authorized the program just at the beginning of March.
So, we do have a $60 million authorization in place as we look forward.
On the cash flow, the repurchases that you see there relate to restricted stocks vesting during the period.
And it's the taxes that are being withheld via shares.
It wasn't -- hi, <UNK>.
It wasn't necessarily a shift.
We -- as we looked at the holiday and we kind of do our postmortem on the holiday and what was -- what went right, what we could've done differently, we decided we'd already planned to do some -- bring back television advertising to ProFlowers and do some other things.
We just adjusted some things probably a little bit more for the Mother's Day period based upon learnings at Valentine's Day.
I think it's a combination.
I think it's how we market our -- because we have -- with our brands, the strength of our brands, I think it's important the commercials have an element of transaction in them, but they also have an element of brand.
And I think that's important as, obviously, had to make sure the -- that we continue to push our brands to drive direct-to-site traffic as well.
So, it's the combination.
No, we're definitely seeing new customers come in as a result of this, especially the fact that you can find our brands and flowers being offered on DaySpring as we speak.
Those are -- it's definitely new customers coming into the Company.
Yes, we think it's a sort of an isolated set of circumstances in the quarter.
That's not to say that it couldn't happen in the future, <UNK>.
But, if you look at our bad debt expense over the last several years, we've averaged kind of $1.5 million to $1.7 million on an annual basis of expense.
So, from time to time, we run into situations where we might incur something more.
And we just had those set of circumstances this particular quarter.
So, you're right.
We're not obviously prepared to give guidance for 2017 at this stage.
But, I would say, in broad terms, yes, we would expect a double-digit lift in 2017 associated with the Valentine's Day just in the day placement.
Yes, it's a good day.
So, yes.
Thank you.
Thank you, <UNK>.
So, <UNK>, actually, I don't want you to interpret that it's half, more or less than half.
I just think that the Tuesday date placement is going to give us a lift compared to the weekend placement for sure.
And candidly, at this point, we haven't assessed it fully because it's all going to depend on the kind of marketing programs we decide to run for that period and what they look like across the brand.
So, a lift seems certainly reasonable.
How much of a lift, I would tell you that, internally, until we do some more work, we're not going to really comment further than that.
Yes, so, great question.
The bad debt expense is part of the florist segment results.
And obviously, that's really why, when you look on a year-over-year basis, the florist segment operating income is lower year over year.
If you took that out, you wouldn't see that [change the sign], of course.
The insurance gain actually gets reported in corporate, not as part of the Provide segment because it's other income.
But, it certainly relates to the Provide segment.
It's just how we've reported and defined where other income gets reported in the financials.
Thanks, operator.
I'd like to thank you, all, for joining us this afternoon.
We truly appreciate your interest in FTD.
Remember Mother's Day.
