Okay.
First, in terms of the dose, as I've said previously, we saw a higher than expected discontinuation rate in first-line pancreatic cancer patients in the expansion of the existing study in months two, three and four.
And we could not find any pattern among them.
I don't think there were necessarily any two reasons for discontinuation that were the same and none of them appeared to me to necessarily be related to the drug and necessarily be related to the dose.
That said, because the discontinuation rate was higher than we expected, we didn't want to go into a large registration study taking the risk that the discontinuation rate early was going to inhibit our ability to see a positive result in the end.
So, we had essentially two choices, one was to just get more patients at the dose that we've already been studying or to study a lower dose, or potentially we could have continued to do both.
But we wanted to be not so exhaustive in what we did such that we would be adding too much time to this, so we decided that let's look at a lower dose, a dose that should still provide levels of JAK1 inhibition as high or higher than ruxolitinib provides in the positive RECAP study analysis.
We feel comfortable with that lower dose.
With respect to whether this has any impact on our JAK1 in terms of other solid tumor combinations, I don't think that it does.
I think that we don't even know that this has anything to do with the JAK1.
We don't know that it has anything to do with the combination with gemcitabine and Abraxane, and we don't even know that this just isn't because the numbers of patients was relatively small in this lead-in to just by chance get a higher discontinuation rate.
We're being prudent but I wouldn't look at as impacting anything else.
Thank you.
And thank you, all, for your time today.
As we said at the beginning, I think it was a very successful first quarter with a fast-growing top line.
As you heard, also, a fast expanding portfolio of clinical projects.
We are looking forward to a series of important and exciting events over the next several months, and I just want to thank you for your time on the call today.
We look forward to talking to you at the second-quarter conference call in early August.
