Yes, as it relates to the investment, <UNK>, in China and the near-term operating losses and kind of cutting to the thrust of your question, we would expect -- and we'll give more guidance, obviously, in February as it relates to 2018 -- but we would expect that the loss in China will be meaningfully lower in 2018 than we believe it'll be in '17.
And that there'll be a steady progression to a profitable business over time.
Obviously, you appreciate the opportunity there.
But again, I think to the thrust of your question, the amount of loss in '18 will be meaningfully lower than the amount in '17.
With respect to the U.K., as <UNK> has outlined for you, and he's with us here this morning, as we've outlined, there's a lot going on in the U.K. as it relates to the environment.
We certainly believe there are opportunities to improve the execution of our business, and <UNK> and team are focused on that.
And we believe that the U.K. is an important market for us and will be a healthy profit market for us over time.
So on the gross margin guide for the fourth quarter, I guess the first thing I would say is it's an estimate and it's our best view of an estimate.
But the reason I start with that is, at the end of the day, guys, what we're driving for is margin dollars, healthy sales growth, profitable sales growth.
And in the major parts of our business, as you've heard this morning from the team, we're not expecting to be more promotional at this point in the fourth quarter than we were a year ago.
So in terms of the promotional aspects that would have affect gross margin, not expecting meaningfully more promotion in 2017 than we had in the fourth quarter 2016.
And in some cases, we would expect to have less promotion.
But we'll see as we manage through the quarter, as Nick described in terms of how we run the business.
So -- and we enter the quarter with inventories in great shape.
And we believe that we've got good, compelling product ideas.
So the gross margin year-on-year change is not that significant.
And directionally, it's down slightly.
Some of that's affected a bit by the other segment some mix dynamic going on with the other segment.
But again, in the major businesses, pretty steady in terms of year-on-year promotion.
So I think we've seen nice trajectory in traffic recently as we've been able to get into very seasonally relevant products, and how we try to partner that with the right promotional activity has been working well for us.
I don't see that changing as we go into holiday, especially as the assortment continues to get more and more seasonal as we go through the season.
But once again, holidays is a very volatile period.
And we obviously reserve the right, to a certain degree, to sit back from that and see what -- just how is the customer behaving and is there something different, incremental or change that we want to do that could change the course of that traffic, if it was to go into a negative place.
But I see the trend we've got now.
I would like to hope that, that maintains itself as we go through holiday.
Sorry, could you -- what was the -- would you mind repeating the question for me, please.
Yes, how we manage across the 2 channels is probably the most important part, which is we really do want it to be a comparable product, comparable product pricing and promotional behavior so that no matter where the customer is interacting with a branch, she gets the same product at the same price, the same promotion.
And obviously, that has been working for us for the last number of years as we've been able to maintain growth in both bricks-and-mortar as well as growth in the online channel and very healthy growth in the online channel.
At the end of the day, the operating income is fundamentally the same.
We don't see a -- in terms of how we manage the business.
It just nets itself out, that they're very similar.
So there isn't a major difference between the 2 of them.
