Yes, <UNK>.
As it relates to price, we do have price.
It will be a little back-half loaded.
We have talked about the FX impacts over the last couple years.
We do have price, which more than offsets that FX in the back half.
Well, our Vans business, as it celebrates its 50th anniversary, has been doing some really creative things, certainly with the Nintendo collaboration.
You will see some new ideas coming into the market place end of this month and early next month that I will leave for you to discover.
It's not something I really want to talk about here on the call.
But in the case of The North Face, we'll be really anchoring ourselves in these new brand territories I have talked about, driving our Summit Series collection, which continues to evolve after its re-launch last year on a global basis, and also driving Mountain Athletics and footwear.
In the case of Timberland, we will continue to drive our boots.
The boot trend is still alive and well, and we have got some great offerings, along with our SensorFlex platform that has been in place now for three years, and continues to gain momentum and grab share, not only here, but mostly how we see it in our international markets.
Good morning, <UNK>.
Hi, <UNK>, this is <UNK>.
The imbalance from a Timberland standpoint is, as I mentioned, boots.
It's across the dealer distribution that the brands work with.
It really is inventory that's been carried out of fourth quarter last year.
As they work through it, with the strong sell-throughs we see in the first half, we will return to growth in the second half.
Otherwise, we don't see inventory issues, other than what we've called out at the beginning of the year.
Caution in the specialty outdoor, reflecting The North Face order book.
The rest of our business is sitting in a really strong place.
With our new, innovative products, we'll have great opportunities to be placed, and be put in front of consumers.
I would say that there's two -- it's a complicated answer, because we're very active.
The two biggest categories would be some of the properties that we're not -- that we're most interested in aren't available now, and some that we're interested in are not available at a price that we think is prudent to pay.
Sure.
Thank you all for your interest in our Company.
It's been an interesting year for us.
In the first half, as I said earlier, consumer engagement and purchasing of our brands in our stores and online is right in line with our long-term organic growth goals.
That gives us great confidence that our brands are strong and our teams are executing well.
Unfortunately, our wholesale business growth is off.
That's following a very weak winter last year, and all the implications of that on inventory in the channel.
But that will get solved with time.
With that, I will just say that we are very confident about our outlook for the second half.
We have good visibility and strong execution skills, and we look forward to giving you guys another update in 90 days.
Thanks so much.
