<UNK>.
Great.
And then, <UNK>, regarding supply.
We really have an expanding global manufacturing network.
Where our objective is redundancy in the system.
From both drug through fill and finish, and right our to labeling and packaging and one of the objectives for Julie has been, obviously, to bring more of those capabilities in-house.
As you know, we have announced expansion of our manufacturing facilities in Ireland, which we are very excited about.
In addition to that, it has just been a continuous focus, under Julie's leadership, on the best talent in the industry, industry-leading quality systems, and continuing to invest in our facilities.
Which we think is represented by some of our announcements surrounding CapEx in this area recently
Should I take the leverage.
Please.
Yes.
So <UNK>, the way to look at this is if you look at 2015 SG&A expenses, right.
And you should literally focus on the percentage of sales in the second half because first half is -- did not have Synageva integrated into us.
When you start looking at it somewhere around 27%, 26% levels, we expect to continue at the same percentage level going into next year primarily because we have to invest in making the metabolic franchise a success.
We've got to put our full power behind Strensiq and Kanuma.
That is how we are thinking about SG&A in the next year.
And the leverage will start coming as the sales of these drugs start coming into the model over the years.
<UNK>, maybe on the 2016 forward-looking on the trends and the base business.
<UNK> for 2016, we really expect to identify a consistent number of patients, newly diagnosed patients, on PNH and aHUS.
As we have mentioned earlier in the call, our view is that the majority of the opportunity, both for PNH as well as for aHUS, lies ahead of us.
The good news is, <UNK>, we have a readout between now and the end of the year, which is just a few weeks.
Next.
<UNK> on Moderna.
It is gratifying to see as we build out our global metabolic franchise with 2 new product launches this year, with Strensiq and Kanuma, 6 of the 7 first preclinical programs from Moderna are in the metabolic setting.
And again, <UNK> will share a little bit more about the collaboration at analyst day.
Turning back to the Strensiq question.
As we -- by the way you said last week, it was this week, but I agree it has kind of felt like a very long week for many of us.
This week, as we mentioned, given the clinical trial experience across multiple multinational trials, and also the very early experience we have had in Japan -- in Germany -- our expectation is that a very, very high proportion of patients initiating Strensiq treatment will be infants and young children.
We believe that the typical patient weight across the population is likely to be in a 20kg to 25kg range.
Thank you.
