We don't have second careers around here.
This is all we do.
We have all day for this.
No, there is nothing related we have been a big primary player for a long time.
There is nothing related to that, <UNK>.
It is truly market.
Our reinsurance folks, we liberated them a long time ago from volume.
You will do the right thing to earn an underwriting profit or you will walk away from the business and that's all that's a reflection of -- Look, it's a little like that the E&S business.
In reinsurance you have to be prepared in the way we run reinsurance.
Everybody's a little different.
Where it has more volatility to it based on the market signature.
You will have moments when you may grow very quickly and then you've got to be willing and prepared that on the other side, there's volatility and you just shed like mad if you have to.
If your intent is to earn an underwriting profit.
Wholesale E&S is [next] like that.
The market expands or shrinks depending on market conditions.
We are focused in just a couple of geographies around the world.
We are focused in the UK.
There is a business, and it has been a good business and we are putting more effort and more investment into that UK business and <UNK> is exploring a couple of places on the continent.
In a thoughtful way, where there is opportunity we believe.
And beyond that, we are in Australia, where we have a portfolio and are growing that.
Other than that, it's where our customers emanating out of the US, or one of those markets, may in fact have a property or an exposure in another country.
Then we have a Lloyd's Platform that is used to be able to quote and issue that alongside their US policy because they have a home in Mexico or they have a home in Colombia.
So we can serve on a global basis.
The notion of expanding high net worth into a whole lot of countries.
If you understand the market environment in those countries and the actual consumer behavior, there is, as we know it there is not a high net worth market to be pursued in most markets of the world.
That's just a fact.
Well it does carry weight.
We are pushing, I would say this, the ACE brand was a bigger brand in China as an example than the Chubb brand.
The conversion to the Chubb brand it gets the Halo of what was the ACE brand because it's based on personal relationship more than anything.
In the other markets of the world, the Chubb brand ACE brand we are promoting the brand and building it.
I think it's very well received.
There's a tremendous brand equity in that Chubb name.
It just has a distinguishing brand image in terms of service and claims like no other insurance company I know.
And that is an asset.
And that is an asset we will promote, that we will burnish, that we are fiduciaries of and will protect.
