That's a little bit of it, yes.
It was a little below.
Alogent was actually a License and implementation and maintenance.
It was basically a toolkit that was sold, and then you sell a bunch of professional services to build it the way the banks want it, which is the way the Tier 1s and international banks do business.
And that's not the way our typical community bank does business.
Yes, it should be back there this year, <UNK>.
Like I said in the opening comments, our annual maintenance billing collections were behind last year by about $10 million.
So if you just throw that in there, that's the difference.
If you figure CapEx or cap software levels off or down slightly in FY17, that was a $19 million increase this year over last year.
Put those two numbers in there and you're back way above earnings.
Yes.
Yes, I think we have, we have three payments businesses, Our debit switch, our bill pay business, and our ACH remote deposit business.
All of them growing in that 5% to 7% range, let's say, for the coming year.
And again, we have this headwind that we're trying to grow over that I mention my opening remarks regarding the two significant customers that we lost last year.
Which we should -- those will anniversary in the December quarter.
No, I think the R&D run rate was a little higher in Q4 than what you can typically expect the run rate.
It's going to level back down a little bit going into FY17, <UNK>.
<UNK>, I do not have that at my fingertips.
I apologize.
It's somewhere around 79.5 million.
Thank you.
Again, I want to thank you for joining us today to review our fourth-quarter and FY16 year end results.
We are pleased with the results from our ongoing operations and the efforts of all of our associates to take care of our customers.
Our executives, managers and all of our associates continue to focus on what is best for our customers and our shareholders.
I want to thank you again for joining us today.
And Andrew, will you now please provide the replay number.
