Yes, the procurement number was $[60] million for 2017.
So $[60] million out of the $100 million.
And in --
In 2016, the procurement was $60 million also.
No, I don't think that's necessarily true.
We talked about $[65] million of growth investments, and we feel it's important to properly fund our sales and marketing expenses, and our engineering, but we had a similar amount last year.
So I don't think there's a meaningful change in that area.
We're going to make sure that we invest for the future, but it's in line with the past.
That's a great question, <UNK>.
I mean, if you want to look at it at the overall level, I think there will be incrementally more spending in sales and marketing expenses, but the same amount of expenditures will be put back in each year.
I mean, we'll have healthy cost reductions offsetting the investments, but there's some opportunities in sales and marketing, and we're funding some of them this year, that we think are going to add great returns for AMETEK over the long term, start to benefit from them later this year.
That's a great question, <UNK>.
I mean, one of our investments that we're making this year is an expansion in southeast Asia.
So that's exactly what we're thinking.
We see some opportunities in our UPT business, our ultra precision technology business, our materials analysis division in southeast Asia, and one of the key investments that we're making is expansion in sales and marketing channels in that area.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes, it's both.
I mean, there are adjacent product areas in the non-acute care facilities.
There are adjacent product areas in the existing customer base, and there are adjacent opportunities internationally.
So we feel really good about all the avenues of growth.
Yes, now Rauland has some of these products under development, and some of the other product areas are more driven by acquisitions than organic development.
Yes, we did the market work, and the existing SAM, the served addressable market was about $500 million.
And the TAM, the total addressable market was about $1 billion.
We didn't include a lot of the TAM in our discussion, but those are the kind of -- it's a niche market.
It's a $500 million served market.
They don't participate much internationally, and we feel good about the potential growth opportunities.
Great, thank you.
Thanks everyone for joining.
And as a reminder, a replay of the call will be available shortly at AMETEK.com and StreetEvents.com.
And certainly, I'm available if there's any further questions.
Thank you very much.
