Right now there's nothing in our forecast for it.
It's just with the way that the schedules are booking up, the fact that the Skandi Constructor has been a good vessel and operates well.
We've got a good relationship with [Doph] and the decision was to leave our equipment on board, which enhanced their opportunity to find work for the vessel.
And we will jointly try and -- we will do our share in trying to find work for the vessel.
Of course we'll fill up our other vessel schedules first, but with the way the schedules are working out, it looks like there could be potential conflicts of scheduling that would require additional tonnage and if so then we would press that -- we would talk with [Doph] about bringing the vessel back into service.
But from a cost perspective our charter does complete on April 1st, I believe it is, <UNK>.
So after April 1st there is no additional cost to us other than maintenance cost for the equipment on board.
I can tell you the -- both systems are jointly owned between ourselves and OneSubSea, the alliance, so the capital is split on the 15,000 PSI system.
That's 100%, so our share -- (inaudible - multiple speakers).
Then on the ROAM system I believe it's 11 and our share is about 5.5.
The economics are such typically an IRS system in the market place on a rental basis will go from anywhere from 50,000 on up to 90,000.
You know, it's a broad range depending on market conditions and whose system it is.
We would expect the 15,000 PSI system to certainly carry a premium.
Yes.
We have very little -- we have zero revenues assumed in our forecast for the ROAM and a little bit for the 15K, but it really doesn't move the needle.
Yes.
We haven't provided specifics.
It's a good backlog.
It's similar to what we had entry in 2016.
Obviously we do have the dry dock in there.
We do have some gaps that we need to fill, but we believe that when we get a vessel it will have high utilization absent the dry dock.
Okay.
Thanks for joining us today.
We very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you on our first quarter 2017 call in April.
