Yes, again I don't feel unreasonably constrained at all.
I think that we're always conscious of capital allocation, we're always conscious of return, we're always conscious of where our debt is and what our debt rating is and so forth.
We want to be all in the right balance here, but for the things that I think would be on my radar screen I think we're in good shape here.
Operator, we'll take one more question.
Well on the last part it hasn't yet but it could.
And we're prepared for that if it does.
So that remains.
It's still working its way through the Indian courts.
But maybe <UNK> has got more detail on that right now than I do but it hasn't yet.
Yes, and I would also add just on the quarter there is some timing, to Mile's point there is always some tender timing in various countries.
If you take the first quarter and the second quarter you're looking at a first half of the year that will be a high single-digit operational growth for EPD.
And that's strong growth.
It's kind of too early to tell.
I think you kind of hope so but to call it sustainable I'd like to see some more data and I'd like to see a little more time.
Because generally speaking in the Nutrition business in the United States share might blip up and down a little bit but over time remains relatively static.
It's pretty difficult to move share sustainably and meaningfully over time in the US.
And your ability to grow the adult Nutrition business is to grow the market for the most part.
And as you know we are the leader in that market.
And pediatric, share may move a couple of points here and there but it always seems to snap back to wherever its median point was.
So we're always pushing on share gain and about the time you think you've gotten somewhere with it something happens, competitive response or whatever, it moves back the other way.
So I think to call current momentum sustainable I think I'd say let me see another quarter.
Thank you, operator, and thank you for all your questions and that concludes Abbott's conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 11 a.
m.
Central Time today on Abbott's investor relations website at www.abbottinvestor.com and after 11 a.
Central Time via telephone at 402-220-5335, passcode 1726.
The audio replay will be available until 4 p.
Central Time on Wednesday, May 4.
Thank you for joining us today.
