Thanks, <UNK>.
Yes, this is <UNK> again.
The middle section of the Woodford has three identified intervals that we like to stay within.
It's structurally complicated down here.
Is folded and faulted.
We do have the luxury of a lot of well control and 3-D seismic data over the area to help us stay in zone.
You got kind of a trade-off of staying in the best rock for produceability and drill rate, but then you don't want to roller coaster borehole.
You need a pretty flat trajectory.
So that's our goal is to find a happy medium between all three of those and stay in zone with the drill bit.
And there certainly will be some testing in areas with a lot of thickness of [wine racking] or staggered stacking lateral.
So there's certainly some things that we can do to help us out there.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Yes, it is interesting.
I think that what the opportunity says is going to be for us or anyone is still I would call it a work in progress.
We have to wait and see what kind of rigs people talk about adding back in the region, how they're going to be able to hold their acreage.
So I guess it's hard question to answer but for us, I think we're just focused on blocking and tackling and filling our acreage so we can drill longer units.
We do think will certainly have those opportunities.
We want to increase our working interest, and really this applies to both Utica and SCOOP, quite frankly.
You do see a little bit more robust land budget this year to account for that.
But we feel comfortable with our ability to backfill and replace our inventory so that's what we're going to focus on.
If the other opportunity presents itself, we'll take a look at if, but we don't have to do anything huge.
I think it's really the same answer, and I will tell you that we've already met with all the offsetting operators.
We are already having conversations about working together, trading acreage.
So I do think we will be able to backfill our units so that we can drill longer laterals.
But I think the same opportunity set that exists down there.
I don't know if anything large is available but certainly lots of small stuff.
Thank you.
Thank you, Donna.
We appreciate your time and interest today.
Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to reach out to our investor relations team.
This concludes our call.
