I'm sorry, I didn't really get your first question.
Of the 47 patients how many are what.
Oh, lung.
It's -- you'll have to wait, but it is not an enormous number of patients at this point in time.
More data will be coming, and we continue to enroll patients in each of these indications.
With respect to LFTs, all I'd say is that we're quite happy with the emerging safety profile, and we'd ask you it wait for the detailed data coming.
And the last question was not a development question.
Yes, hi <UNK>, it's <UNK>.
The unit growth accounted for almost all of the growth quarter-over-quarter.
We took a price increase in the middle of September, so that really only added about $1 million to the sale, so almost all of it was unit growth.
For peristency, we don't have that much data in PV.
Obviously we just launched really in January.
You can look to our clinical trials.
So, if you look at RESPONSE, for example, and the follow up on RESPONSE, you have 83% of patients who are still on drug at about two years.
In MF, if you looked at the COMFORT trials, you had 50% of patients were still on drug at three years.
We believe that persistency will probably end up being greater with PV, but we still need to accumulate more data.
Thanks.
This is Rich on the first question.
The data that's in the abstract that was released this morning does show that in these patients the rate of all grade 3 or higher, and they were all only grade 3, was lower than the rates of related grade 3s with the ipilimumab/nivolumab combination.
There will be more data, more robust data, later in the week.
And as we said, our goals here are both to be able to have more effective therapy than the background treatment in this case, pembrolizumab.
And in terms of comparison to establish combinations to either have better efficacy or equivalent efficacy and better safety.
And as we've said, we're pleased with the data so far and we look forward to sharing more data with you on Friday.
On the second part of your question on the PD1 optionality and how it\
Okay.
Thank you, thank you for your time today.
Thank you for your questions.
I know a lot of the questions were related to data that is not yet available.
We look forward to seeing you at the SITC conferences where a lot of this data will be presented in the next few days.
And I also want to remind you that the Lilly and us will have an investor call from 9am eastern in the morning of November 11 where Lilly specifically will be speaking about the data that has been presented for baricitinib.
So thank you, and good-bye.
