Well, the factors that drive the growth in supply for us is no different, whether it be a vacation rental or a regular hotel, rental car, whatever a hotel.
But we have people out there, who are trying their best to go out and make sure that the people who have that supply, understand the benefits of our low cost distribution system.
And when we show them the benefit of generally people say, yes, I want to be part of that, because they see the incredible number of customers who are coming to our site, from around the world, in 42 languages, who want to find a place to stay, rent a car, or whatever we offer.
So it's no different at all.
Now you're asking for specific areas or [whatever].
Again, I just want to make this very, very plain, that we believe we need to be everywhere, throughout the world.
So I'm not going to say, we should want this place, or that place.
We want to be everywhere, because customers are traveling around the world, and they want to stay everywhere.
And that's what we're going to do.
That's <UNK>.
Yes, <UNK>, you see the property growth on our website, and that's been driven more by vacation rentals.
So you can assume that the vacation rentals are contributing nicely to our room night growth.
We don't split out the growth rates separately, but that's been a nice tailwind to our growth rate for several years now, as we continue to add more and more vacation rentals.
And it's certainly something that we expect to continue going forward.
In terms of ROI leverage, we're not going to break that down for you by hotel versus vacation rental.
I wouldn't really think of it that way anyway.
I mean, we're out there trying to bring customers to our website, that are interested in a place to stay in Rome.
And maybe they're thinking they're going to look for a hotel or two hotel rooms for their family.
And then, since our teams have done such a good job of integrating the vacation rentals into the search results, in a very intuitive way, that customer may just say, you know what, this apartment, in the heart of Rome is perfect for my family.
We don't need to stay in two separate hotel rooms, and the price is great, and it's got a kitchen, so this is what I want.
So we're not really trying to target separately.
There are some key words that maybe lend themselves more to the vacation rental space, but we look at it from an overall portfolio perspective.
You're welcome.
Yes, I think it is.
When people become loyal to a particular site, that ties meta particularly, specifically, because they're offering great services.
And it's one of those things, where the people are great, providing it to our hotel, [metasearch] or for our flight one, by being able to provide the great ways to go out, and see those different prices, and be able to see all their different choices, and then go easily to actually book it, that's the advantage.
Now clearly, we believe that KAYAK is -- Momondo, now that's mostly a flight one, you've seen that in press, et cetera.
But we know that we're good in both areas, and we're hoping to make sure we to continue to do that.
Listen, we want to thank everybody for coming on the call, and thank you very much for attending.
