Hi, <UNK>, it's <UNK>.
So over the last year or so, Minacs has been growing at higher single-digit growth rates.
And there is some overlap, but it's relatively small.
We have two customers that really are the bulk of that.
And the customers were aware of the transaction and supported the transaction, and frankly, allow us to grow with the combined business going forward.
Well, I'll tell you, <UNK>, we're always focused on growth.
And you probably could have said -- made the same comment last year and the year before, not just about Hyve, but any business we have.
So obviously, we don't sit on our laurels.
As we continue to earn more and more business, we continue to look for more growth opportunities too.
So we don't look at that as a headwind.
Thank you.
Hi, <UNK>.
Clearly, we continue to work on the business quarter on quarter on quarter, improving it, both getting better leverage out of our investments, as well as streamlining some processes, and driving efficiencies as <UNK> has mentioned.
We also tend to get more leverage within our business in Q3 and Q4, which you saw last year, in our expectations as you'll see this year again.
But we don't stop, but we continue to figure out how to make better improvements.
And as <UNK> mentioned, we're on path to our double-digit operating income expectations for 2017, as we made the announcement at the Analyst Day, and that's what we're focused on achieving.
Thank you, <UNK>.
I think anything that's good for HP Inc.
usually translates in being good for us as well.
I think what's behind it though, when you look at the -- really the business that they bought, which is the -- which is really an enhancement to the A3 business, and the A3 supply chain.
Because of the specialty businesses that we have, and certainly, one focused on the business component of the higher end printer and copier business, I think that plays very, very well into one of the strong capabilities that we have in the marketplace.
So, yes, I think it's going to benefit us, certainly very well.
Hi, <UNK>.
Yes, it's <UNK>.
So we do that now.
We forecast so much of our revenue that's going to be cannibalized by ourselves, driving better processes, which can come out of robotics and automation that we do.
We primarily see it more in our healthcare and banking financial services business which tends to have some more complicated mature systems, with multiple legacy systems to get to a work product, which is where we see a lot of value.
We see it as a differentiator from us offering it to our clients and taking share from our competitors who are not offering it.
And we also see it as being able to drive more margin enhancement, as clearly it allows us to do more with less, as we drive better efficiencies for our clients.
So we continue to invest in that area.
We're doing it now.
We see some good payback, and we'll continue to drive it forward.
Thanks, <UNK>.
All right.
Thank you, everybody, for joining our call.
