We are always working, there's more and more every day, frankly.
So i guess the short answer is yes.
There's more to come.
I though we're working on one right now that we hope to sign.
Again, it is really a matter of easier access for us, and for the folks in the buying group to really pressure each other to utilize the products that they have contracts with, because they get their pricing, and they get rebates based on that.
So it is up to them to try to help drive that business as well.
But it's just a good source of leads.
It is a good source of access.
And we leverage them more and more every day.
A lot of these buying groups break off into new corporate entities, where we already have relationships.
It is an important part of our strategy.
I am not sure i want to comment on that per se.
I'm not even sure --
Do we know, I don't know that we know who the Top 10 are.
Every day.
(laughter)
Greg, I'm not being smart.
It is every day.
We try and -create programs based on how the customers like to buy our products.
So some people like to pay cash.
Some people like to do reagent rental.
Some people like to do leases.
So we have at any one time, our sales reps can pull five to eight different programs out of their portfolio, based on how that customer wants to buy our products.
Nothing gets given away.
They buy our products.
One other comment on cost of ownership.
When you look at blood chemistry, which is probably the most important product in the clinic, when it comes to diagnostics, the Abaxis VetScan has no overhead.
That's the biggest cost of running is the overhead.
The trained operator.
The maintenance.
The warranty.
Continuing warranty payments you make for maintenance, and all of that kind of stuff.
We don't have any of that.
That's how we sell our products.
We show the customer that without the overhead, you get your result at less cost because we have no overhead.
Great.
Okay.
I would like to thank everybody for tuning in.
I would also like to congratulate the Abaxis employees that really did an excellent job this quarter, coming through with fantastic earnings growth.
You look at all of the metrics that we focus on here at the Company, increasing the sales, improving the efficiency, and making sure that we have leverage in the business.
Make sure that when we sell 11% more, we get more than double that on the bottom line.
Most of our employees here are paid on incentives based on the Company's performance, and so clearly, they've gotten that message, and we're really focused as a team here.
Everybody pulling in the same direction.
I want to thank the Abaxis employees for great performance as well.
So we look forward to talking to everybody at the end of January.
Thank you very much.
