Well, we're seeing Walmart has intensified the whole health and wellness business and especially on making a strong commitment to the whole at-leisure activewear business.
So I think that halo effect and the in-store developments of what they're doing has helped Ben Hogan as well as our product.
We work very closely with Walmart in developing all of our business.
The acquisition has been a stellar acquisition.
We acquired the brand 3.5 years ago.
Very little business being done in the United States and today it's a international and domestic brand with Walmart and there's continuous growth.
We're very excited about what's going on in Canada and as well we started delivering now to the Walmart Europe as the stores.
And the results have been strong and we feel that we can continue to show substantial growth with this partnership, as well as our partners that we have recently bind licensees, either domestically or internationally look to be doing extremely well also.
So it's been a win-win situation for us with the acquisition.
We don't currently -- we do not do business with Target or Costco.
But I understand they're doing extremely well and -- at retail from what I see in terms of what their comp numbers are.
We own the Laundry brand and we also license it.
On the Laundry brand, the excitement has really -- the brand is anchored by a big dress business.
So our dress business has been very strong, as well as our -- the dress side, the evening side, the social side, has seen a lot of strength.
A lot of retailers have spoken about their dress department.
We've heard about it's been a strong initiative at Macy's and a strong seller.
And for us, the product has done extremely well.
We've expanded the brand to include a suit business and we have seen growth in that business as well.
And we'll continue to expand on the Laundry brand as we go into next year with a collection in sportswear which hopefully we'll be able to start showing retailers and launching by first quarter of next year.
And the brand has strong momentum on licensing side, which we continuously increase the penetration of the brand by having strong licensing partners.
Our outerwear licensee has done an exceptional job, as well as we just signed a new bedding partner and our girls' dress licensee is doing well.
We feel there's still a tremendous amount of potential with the Laundry brand.
Linen is an important fabric to the Perry Ellis Collection.
We are the go-to vendor when it comes to linen, both in shirts and pants and jackets and any product category that we can actually make with linen.
We do a great job in the 100% linen fabric and it's been one of the strong mainstays for the brand.
And it's on a hot trend right now, so we feel that's a continuous opportunity for us as the linen continues to trend extremely well at retail.
And being that it's nice and hot across the country, it even welcomes the opportunity further for the linen fabric.
Thank you.
So as you heard today, we're back on track for the future.
But this quarter is clear proof of the truth of our hard work and all our shareholders and employees and associates.
We have full confidence in the capacity of our people and organization to achieve what we set out to do years ago, making this Company a preeminent player in the apparel industry.
Thank you for your support, for your patience, and your interest in our Company.
Have a good day.
