Group practices are certainly having an impact in our business.
I think that's why we highlighted it as one of the six megatrends.
Now you're talking to the CEO, Matt, here and I would tell you that we're never happy about doing enough in the group practice area.
We do believe that they appreciate everything that DENTSPLY SIRONA has to bring to the group practice to their individual operatories.
I think our 360 program has been extraordinary.
The ability to educate and train is something that we've differentiated ourselves.
We've got world-class brands and we're able to help them with the procedures.
Certainly I would see more and more that group practices appreciate the impact that digital dentistry and single visit dentistry has on their practice.
It's our belief you are going to see more of that in the quarters and years to come.
Matt, it's <UNK>.
I might also add that as the synergy teams come together focusing on the revenue synergy opportunities, one of the areas that they are particularly focused on and excited about with a tremendous amount of energy is, in fact, DSOs and group practices.
They see the unique opportunity of the combination here driving unique value to this customer group.
And, again, it's exciting to see their excitement.
So I think you will hear more and more from us in this area as we move forward.
And I think, just to add to that, this is becoming more than a North America phenomenon.
<UNK> is really highlighting what we're seeing around the globe.
Yes, the CapEx number we would expect in the range of $110 million to $125 million for the year.
And CapEx conversion as we said before should clearly be above net income.
We should convert more than 100% of our net income to free cash flow.
Sure.
I think Australia continues to be strong for us in the quarter.
Canada is in Rest of World for us, so real positive driver.
Pretty pleased to see Latin America, including Brazil, hold up and grow solidly.
And then China.
With all the talks about what's going on in China, I would say that we've put together very solid growth, and the reality is that 7.5% is significant.
We can probably say Middle East is a bit more challenged.
We can say <UNK> --
I said it earlier, yes, that's right.
We do see this in our business.
I think on the long term, a critical market for us and we're all excited about is Japan.
Japan showed some slowness in the quarter, multiple reasons for that.
I think we're on track.
Feel good about the team we have there and the product offering, but Japan has got to be a long-term driver for us.
So we would have done better had we gotten more there.
But understand what's going on there, as well.
Thank you all very much for your interest in DENTSPLY SIRONA.
We're looking forward to updating you on our next call in November and if you have further questions we're available for follow-ups.
Enjoy the rest of the summer.
That concludes our conference call.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
