Yes, I think -- good question.
So we're actually quite proud of this.
And philosophically, this is not a one-time project that we have these initiatives or teams out there.
This is every day.
This is just grinding away, looking for opportunities.
We've seized opportunities around supply chain, around our maintenance of our facilities, engineering systems.
We've had a number of opportunities as people have retired, how we've retooled the workforce and brought new people into the Company.
So there's no singular item, <UNK>, is what I would tell you, and I think that speaks to the durability or the sustainability of what we're doing here.
And it's just a daily effort, and we're keenly focused on keeping our own costs low -- in this case, actually reducing them.
But I expect that to continue.
I think it's probably something that you'd do on an annual basis, a lot of things going to your O&M expense.
But I think that's more of an annual trend.
And we've been trending that.
We've been watching that since 2011, and I'm really proud of the effort the entire Company has put forth on this, and I don't expect it to cease.
The expectation is we continue going forward.
Well, I think, let me clarify that a bit.
So we are very fortunate to see load growth on our system.
So we're adding customers.
And so what we've been able to do is absorb that and not see incremental costs go up, okay.
So I don't think you're going to see O&M reductions go down if you're thinking in terms of rate case activity or anything like that.
What we're saying is that we're absorbing this additional load with productivity and efficiency gains in our system.
Yes and yes.
And so we're seeing a number of the chain accounts build box stores and restaurants and things like that coming in.
We are beginning to see a bit of a slowdown in the oilfield sector, as you'd expect.
But it does not seem to be slowing down on the commercial side, the retail side.
Yes, they do.
So Enable serves the Mustang Plant currently and Horseshoe Lake and Seminole.
And then some other suppliers serve Red Bud and McClain.
Yes, you are.
We won't be a full taxpayer until 2018.
Well, they are deliberating right now.
This is, I think, the top item on their plate.
In fairness to the Commission, they've got a heavy caseload.
They've been very involved in some of the -- you know, there's been a lot of earthquakes here, so they've been involved in that analysis.
And in fairness to Commissioner Hiett, he walked into this.
He didn't have the benefit of the history that had gone on the previous four years with this, so he's quickly getting up to speed as well.
So I don't really have any, <UNK>, any more insight than that.
And we're as anxious as you are to get this resolved.
I will tell you that we have had some discussions, not complaining or anything about this case, but more about prospectively, we've got to come up with solutions.
What can we do on our side to make this process faster in the future.
So we're looking forward in terms of how we can improve this process to make it more timely.
Right.
I think your thesis is exactly right.
I mean, we have asked if they're looking for any more information, if they need anything from us.
I think your thesis is right.
It's sitting there on their desk.
They're deliberating right now.
No, we -- are you talking about as far as taking actions to comply.
No, <UNK>, we are taking actions to comply.
We have a deadline, we have compliance dates between Regional Haze and MATS, and we are taking actions.
We could not wait -- go ahead.
No, no.
The actions we're taking is exactly what we spelled out in our testimony, exactly what we communicated well in advance of our filing, and our plan of attack is exactly what we've been communicating for a couple of years now.
When you say a decision different than that, what do you mean.
The ALJ -- I think the ALJ was primarily speaking about various components of how you'd recover that.
But the Commission is not -- it's our job to design and operate this system and make these decisions on how the business is going to operate.
And so I don't believe that they're going to get into making decisions about what assets we should be utilizing.
And besides, remember, the ALJ did indicate all of this was prudent, and the legislation provides for that as well, in that this was a mandate, a requirement, and that's what this legislation that was put in place was to address, was timely recovery for environmental mandates.
And this is a mandate.
Yes.
So on Mustang, our point there on Mustang was we wanted to be upfront and transparent with the Commission, let them know where we were going with how we are going to reconfigure our fleet.
We had a window of opportunity there to be able to site new generation closest to the largest load center.
It serves a very critical piece of our 345 transmission loop around the city.
And we made that case to the Commission, and whether they account for that in a rider, or whether they want to deal with that later in a rate case, that's fine.
We'll deal with that.
Yes, it's really just a timing issue as it relates to a tax impact.
That write-off will actually flow through our corporate tax calculation and impact our effective rate accordingly.
That's correct.
It accelerates any amortization of that.
And you don't really amortize goodwill, anyway.
It just sits there until (inaudible).
No.
Okay.
Well, once again, I want to thank our members for their hard wok and dedication and commitment to safety, and thank all of you for joining us on this call, and have a great day.
