<UNK>, I don't have the occupancies or any of that stuff on the acquisitions here with me.
They are generally somewhere between 70% and 85% occupied.
In terms of price per foot, the stuff required were about $110, $120 a foot.
It varies by market.
Lower.
You're welcome.
Well, London and Paris -- you know, first of all, those are big markets.
I assume you're talking about the major Metro centers, London, Paris, Berlin.
Yes, they are just like Los Angeles or San Francisco or Manhattan.
I mean, you've got core, core markets, the inner ring in Paris, downtown near Buckingham palace, the central part of London.
First of all, you can't get zoning.
Second of all, if you -- if a piece of land is for sale, it's incredibly expensive, probably doesn't make sense.
So it's equally as tough.
And the sites we've done in London are -- they have not been easy in terms of getting the zoning.
Same challenges that you face here, where the markets where you really, really want to be in and there's no competition, it's really hard or there's no zoning.
Well, you got to keep in mind in all of <UNK>tern Europe and, again, this is best guess statistics, somewhere between [1500] and 1800 facilities in all of <UNK>tern Europe, including Great Britain, over half of which are in Great Britain.
So the product that's available across the continent is pretty thin.
There's not a lot of -- I think in Berlin, there's 10, 12 facilities in all of Berlin.
So there's not a lot to buy and the product is on average, I would say, much lower quality than the US because a lot of it was not purpose-built.
A lot of it was converted office, converted garages, converted industrial buildings.
And it takes a variety of shapes and sizes.
So not a lot of purpose-built product in Europe.
Not a lot of product to even buy.
And most the product there is over in Great Britain and a lot of it's outside London.
Thank you for participating on our call and we look forward to speaking to you next quarter.
Have a good afternoon.
