Yes and we did that measure.
And for the quarter, it's about $4.5 million on the revenue line.
For the backlog, it hurt us about $4 million as well.
Remembering that we were slow to that, pretty slow, I mean the last few years is when we really started to focus on it.
But if a score of 100% would be the end of the journey, which I don't know if you are ever at the end of the lean journey, based on where we are today, but if 100% was that, I still think we are not, I don't know, I guess halfway to 60%.
I mean we've got a lot still that we can do and improve our factories and our office operations.
It's just not in the factories.
So that's just without having done a lot of -- that's a gut feel from being in the plants and talking with our guys and looking at our rankings and the things we're working on.
I think we would be in the 25%-plus range.
This is <UNK>.
We've got over 220 product lines.
But by group, I would tell you that we have, in most cases, held onto market share.
And in a few cases, we have gained market share, and where we have slight market share loss would be probably in the highway pavers, but not by much.
We've gained enough that it was -- we've lost a little, but we haven't really lost a lot.
And part of that is there has been a lot of rent-to-own in the last selling season.
But again, Roadtec is doing really pretty well through the first half.
So it's hard to get to critical on Roadtec on that.
But if there was one place where I'd say we have lost any, and it wouldn't be much, that would probably be where it is.
Everywhere else we've done a fine job of holding onto market share.
It's frustrating walking around up there, to be honest.
I would say that there are those that get it and understand it.
But sometimes you try to hold your patience, but at one of the meetings, I said to -- well, I shouldn't say what I said to them -- but I just said it's easy to sit here in D.
C.
where you fix the roads for the tourists and not know what district they were from and how good the contractor was in their district.
And I said it's easy to fly back and forth between those two areas where you've got a great contractor and great roads and then back to D.
, I said.
But I've been to 16 states in the first half of the year, and I can tell you it's falling apart.
And I just don't know that they get that.
Now, I do think that the majority of them understand they need to do something.
I do think they've gotten the messages.
I think our associations have done a great job of giving them those stats, <UNK>.
I really do.
I think most of them get it.
That was a one-off, and I'm sorry I was emotional about that.
But I do think they know they need to do it.
Yes.
I would say that Texas would be one of those states.
Florida would be one of those states.
Oklahoma has been okay for some of our customers.
So those would be the ones that would come to mind just talking here on the phone.
At this point, I would say it is not dozens but dozen, 12 to 15 right now.
It depends on where that business comes into, <UNK>, by division, but I would say probably in the $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion range.
We can handle a lot of work up to that.
That being said, I would tell you our utilization would sound better than that right now, but we are not working three shifts in every place.
So I mean we could add shifts and add people, and our ability to get people is fairly good in most locations.
We have some where the unemployment is still really low, but by and large I think we could get good people to be able to go up in the $1.5 billion range pretty quickly.
<UNK>, I think we might have seen a little bit of that through the buying season this year because it was just a little more stable.
It wasn't much, but it feels a little more stable.
There's people still looking on the plant side right now.
So I would think we might be seeing that on a small scale right now because the plants have been running a little more in the last year.
So I think we may be seeing that just a little bit.
I don't know that that wouldn't be an end of 2016, the 2016-2017 type buying season event more than a this year event.
I think we will always probably have -- I think the larger divisions -- let me back up.
The larger ones, by and large, are pretty close to all having new systems that will be good for a decade or more.
And then some of the smaller divisions may do them, but they will be much smaller in price, too, because there's less users.
So we are also having everybody choose one of two systems, so we are getting more continuity across the board.
And we are getting better at putting them in, and that helps us.
We are doing a little best practice, more best practices sharing.
So I think we're going to be seeing that come down probably after next year pretty significantly.
This is <UNK> <UNK>.
There is definitely some surplus equipment available right now, rigs and pumpers.
It would probably take several months of sustained increases in the prices to try to use up some of that inventory.
But after that, I think we have a good chance of selling some new equipment in those areas.
Thank you, Adam.
We appreciate everyone's participation on our second-quarter conference call.
Thank you for your interest in Astec.
As our news release indicates, today's conference call has been recorded.
A replay of the conference call will be available through August 4, 2015, and an archived webcast will be available for 90 days.
A transcript will be available under the Investor Relations section of the Astec Industries website within the next seven days.
All of that information is contained in the news release that was sent out earlier today.
So this concludes our call.
Thank you all.
Have a good week.
