Obviously, <UNK>, it varied.
But I think the question for me here is given the starting point, can we move faster.
That's the big question.
And given 30 days on the job, it's difficult for me to provide that at this point.
But I can tell you that I think the opportunities here are far greater than I've seen in the previous three times that I've been challenged with this type of situation.
So I do believe there's a possibility that we'll be able to impact it quicker.
As <UNK> mentioned, we're really focused on driving those customer service and execution metrics right away.
But we want to make sure we get the strategy right, and that's why you're seeing the numbers that you're seeing from us.
The strategy and driving the value of this Company through the roof over the next five years requires us to have the right approach for multiple years.
And that's why we're being very thoughtful, deliberate, and disciplined about how we approach the short-term guidance, and then also our strategic plan, which is going to be, as we said earlier on the call, completed sometime in the fall, which will give me a much clearer idea of what we're speaking about here.
The ability to impact Q2, Q3, I don't know at the moment.
We talked about our sales trends.
We talked about the need to improve execution.
How quickly that will impact short-term results is an unknown for me right at this point.
But I do know the strategic plan that we pull together for the fall will be something that will enable us to really unlock big growth, big productivity, and really get shareholder value moving.
I would say that it is not different.
And if you look up, which you could, past experience, it was not two years.
I would see us impacting much before that.
Thank you.
So obviously, I want to thank all of you for your questions.
In closing, allow me to reinforce, we're extremely well positioned.
We have tremendous scale as a Company.
We've got a passionate and motivated team.
There's no doubt we've got many areas to improve, but the exciting opportunity ahead is to transform this business into the leader it should and needs to be.
You can count on us to listen to our customers.
You can count on us to be a customer-driven culture.
You can count on us to enable our team members to win in the marketplace.
And ultimately, we're all very confident that this will lead to increased value for all of our shareholders.
So thank you for joining us today.
And this concludes our call.
