Thank you.
Possibly.
So, obviously there is any for capacity in general that, if not satisfied -- I am talking about computing capacity -- if not satisfied by the next generation of processors, needs to be satisfied by the existing one.
We will have to wait and see with respect to that.
I think the point here is that any fine-tuning of the scale with respect to VR13, will have ramifications with respect to the level of business on VR12.5.
And needless to say, that cuts both ways.
Right.
If VR13 it's accelerated, we will be selling fewer of the VR12.5.
And conversely, if it were to be further delayed, we will sell more of the older one but we would like to see the new ones come about sooner than later.
Because we have more opportunities for the new ones, yes.
I am not going to pinpoint applications and customers beyond saying that we are spreading our coverage suggesting the past two applications other than processors.
We are expanding our coverage applications of VR13 other than the data centers.
And the level of interest in our solution across a different place in the industry is rising considerably, because it's not a mystery that the early adopters have done well with our solution.
And they have achieved good success in terms of improved performance and capabilities.
To be clear, not to potentially create confusion, the ramp that we are talking about in the second quarters, the bookings ramp, is distinct from shipping.
And so, as suggested earlier, we are looking at the actual ramp in shipments to -- for VR13 to start in Q3.
We have a good level of capacity in place and we expect to be able to reach production rates well above past peaks with capacity that we already have in place.
For that reason, as suggested in earlier parts of this discussion, our focus over the last six months has been to actually expand capacity in the VIA space.
We are starting from very little and we need to bring about significant capacity before we take the next step with respect to a particular chip manufacturing capacity, which is at the core of point of load, the processor type applications, as it is with respect to other kinds of applications in frontends and other areas.
We think we've got still a bit of time to take the next step.
With respect to Picor products, that is an established model that has got a good deal of scalability built in.
So, we think we are well-covered over the next few quarters with respect to, in particular, data center type of applications.
I think that would also be VR13, so I think the timing is unfortunately the same.
That is correct.
We have had --
-- divided solutions for quite some time now.
So, in fact, we have been advancing the capabilities beyond that which was already cable enough, literally six months ago.
I think if there is one more question, we will take it and --.
I think you've got a believer in me.
We've invested nearly [$200 million] in being about this capability and I do expect to see a very large return on that investment, so.
I am a patient fellow, so.
(laughter)
Thanks a lot.
Thank you, <UNK>.
So with that, we will conclude.
Talk to you next year.
Yes, talk to you all next year.
Take care.
