Okay so you got a break it down.
Because your KPIs are different based upon what you're looking at.
If you look at your CRM activities such as our direct mail, you're looking at response rates.
If you're looking at your digital CRM, you're looking at email open rates.
But then also visit rates in purchases that are made.
So those have very concrete metrics that are very -- same with your digital spend it really comes down to how many people actually engage with the digital spend you're doing there.
As well as what shows up in store.
And you track that as long as you have a BCC card, or as long as they flow through the e-commerce site.
And then some of your other stuff such as your social media influencer's, you have to really look at impressions and things like that.
You can't really look at, do they turnaround by the store, because the many customers you don't have any data on them to track whether they showed up in your store.
But you're looking at do they actually engage with those posts.
And are those social media influencer's recommending your brand to a broader audience of people, and as a result are you getting more impressions.
Sure.
I think the answer is it will be different.
So your loyalty customer, your BCC customer, and even your list customer tends to be quite responsive to some of the promotional activity you may put out through your emails.
So the net result is that could turn traffic fairly quickly.
If you get the promotional strategy right.
For the social influencer's, and for your digital marketing spend, it tends to be a slower build.
It's more of a grassroots build through social media where people are recommending your brands, or recommending trying certain products to carry in your stores.
And that takes longer to build.
So there is a mix of short-term activity and longer term activity that you're working on at the same time.
On our e-commerce side, we're really targeting faster growth rates in e-commerce.
We've radically improve the website we offer.
We're making it much more user-friendly.
We have seen terrific improvements in traffic.
We haven't seen the corresponding improvements in conversion yet.
It's up, it's positive, but it's not positive to the level we want.
And our team continues to think about how we make the site more usable.
As well as how do we link that toward our digital advertising and social media activity to draw more traffic and better conversion through the site.
I think -- I don't think so.
I think we have a constant stream or promotional activity that we're trying to tailor to our user group.
To basically bring them to the store and inspire them to come.
I have seen the calendar for the first half of the year I would say it's a normal calendar.
You bet.
<UNK> that such a broad base question because there are so many different things we changed.
Obviously we did a lot of merchandising resets that affected.
And some of those are significantly up.
So as an example cosmetics, multicultural, those categories are significantly performing significantly better than previous years.
Nails I think is going through an overall seismic change in the category as the extended wear products cannibalize some of the gel products.
So even though we're seeing good transactions there.
The reality is sales have been down.
It's a very big question.
I think what we're excited about overall is that we're past a lot of the disruptive activity.
So as I mentioned earlier, the migration of our CRM platform, the upgrades of so many categories, the upgrade of so many stores, the changeover in the packaging, what we felt was necessary to establish our brands as salon quality brand.
All of that is behind us now.
Which allows us to focus much more on in store execution.
We're actually cascading out of selling model to all associates every single store in the country right now.
And we see that as a real positive it will help us with the UPT.
And as you get UPT up, that gives us a little bit of time to work on using our social media and advocacy based model to drive traffic over time.
I think it was more brick-and-mortar.
I think that's right.
You're seeing obviously a significant investment in online channels.
That being said, is not penetrating much into the pro side.
But I do think that online channels are pushing fairly largely into the retail side.
And we expect that to continue which is one of the reasons why we're investing so heavily in our own e-com platform right now and really upgrading that.
So my reference was really on the brick-and-mortar side.
II don't see much in terms of a difference as to how our major competitors are playing the game.
And let's be clear, on the Sally side, the major competitors are mass competitors, and we treat those customers up in the salon quality solutions from mass.
I don't see much change there.
Obviously this competitors a relatively slow growth, they are upgrading the categories to some extent, but most of them had already done that.
And then what I would say in the BSG side, we have one primary competitive there, salon centric, I don't see a big difference there.
Or much change in strategy there.
And then finally, there's the e-com side, and there I think we have to continue to upper game to compete in that world.
We do.
We don't disclose the growth rate specifically, but around 1.5% of sales and they are growing double digits much higher than our store level.
No.
We're not changing that at all.
We continue to be comfortable with the range we're in.
Thank you.
I would say a little bit.
Our total price increases that we took across the whole business was well under 1%.
So I don't think it's a huge leverage point, it contributes to some extent, but not a great deal.
They have trended better, but I think it's important to note that those were also some of our let's call it worst looking stores.
In many cases we went to markets and to store bases where we knew we had a problem in terms of aging store base.
So it's not surprising that those stores would get the most out of that investment.
Is not clear to me some of the newer stores and the newer markets would get as much benefit from that.
Thank you very much for that.
Thank you very much.
I'd like to thank all of you for the questions today and for your continued support of Sally.
And I look forward to seeing you in the marketplace soon.
We will be out there in New York this week and coming weeks as well.
Thanks again.
And enjoy Thanksgiving.
