Right.
So I think what we said publicly, Toby, is we think that we can get to 2.5 before the end of 2016, and probably think sooner than later.
When we first started saying that, we thought we'd say at the end of 2016.
If things continue apace, the way they are right now as far as EBITDA growth and cash generation, we think we'd get there sooner in 2016.
As we've always told you -- as well as the credit rating agencies and our investors -- anytime we're at 2.5 times leverage, I think the future cash generation is better served either being returned to shareholders in the form of share purchases or, if we can identify an attractive asset, acquiring another business.
So there's a real upside to us delevering quickly.
We are creating equity value.
We're reducing our interest expense.
But most importantly, we're positioning ourselves to retain our credibility with our stakeholders with our stakeholders and be able to do share purchases and acquisitions.
Subsegments of technology, clinical research, and creative.
But we're not going to get into foreign language translation or anything like that.
I would just tell you it's subsegments.
We gave the numbers in the prepared remarks.
And let me just give you the absolute number, if I can find it.
We'll have more to say about that next year.
We are winding down on a couple of things -- one is an integration of our European operations, and also an integration of some domestic visions into the Oxford segment.
But yes, there's going to be some efficiencies gained.
And we'll have more to say about the actual effect of that when we give some guidance on 2016.
As it relates to the numbers that you asked for on headcount: excluding Creative Circle, the -- and this is average number for Q3 -- was 2,039.
And that's up from 1,720 in the third quarter of 2014.
Thank you.
You know, <UNK>, it's a great organization that was built by a couple of great people.
And they put underneath them a great second tier.
So one of the endearing features of the business beyond its great margins and the great end market was -- they were our kind of folks, great people.
And they feel empowered.
It's been a net positive for everyone and our shareholders.
But for our new employees, they are now participants of our employee stock purchase plan.
The first window just opened for them.
They are seeing the ability to participate in the growth of the equity of the Company, and the Company doesn't have to be sold to get liquidity in their holdings.
A lot of city managers and others are receiving equity awards on an annual basis.
And so we've, so to speak, equatized them.
And they are now part of our programs.
And there's no sales channel conflict.
We've had a lot of events in the marketplaces, and creating awareness, and there's very good esprit de corps.
We have not lost anyone because of the acquisition.
You know, they have a number of employees.
Have we lost some people because of relocation or want to stay at home.
A couple, but all in all it's a net positive.
And the cooperation and the collaboration has been very good.
And that's why you see not a deceleration in the revenue, a continued healthy growth rate and margin.
I mean, they grew 22.6%.
So, <UNK>, I will go ahead and respond.
We saw, as <UNK> said earlier, growth across the board -- double digit growth, as we said, in all the industries except for government.
Technology, business services were particularly strong.
Financial services particularly strong, considering some of our best or top accounts were not giving us a lift.
But it was pretty much across the board, I would say.
In terms of industrial activity, are you talking about -- what -- consumer industrial companies.
That unit also grew, not the oil and gas portion of it, but the other parts of it did grow.
In consumer and industrial.
No.
Nope, double-digit growth.
<UNK>, on that one, what we were referring to is not that a customer said we price our business 300 basis points lower than we used to, and we say no, and someone else picks it up.
And without naming banks, there are a couple of banks that have cut their spend with all vendors by 50%.
On ebb and flow with specific banks.
It's pretty broad-based, so -- I hate to say I'm not going to speak for competitive purposes, but I've learned the hard way.
We have spawned a lot of boutiques in the subsegments by bragging about their growth rates.
So you know where we're playing.
And I would tell you it's pretty broad-based.
We appreciate your time and attention, and we look forward to visiting with you again on the fourth-quarter conference call.
And management will be in New York for a couple of conferences in November.
Thank you.
