$20.3 million.
For the first quarter, <UNK>, that number was pretty close to $800,000.
You're welcome.
That's a good question.
He's referring to Tractor Supply which, gosh, we took a lick this morning based on our results but, boy, they really took a lick based on theirs.
I own a little bit of that stock and it fell out the map in one day.
I was in Tractor Supply stores interestingly this past week and they're still solid.
They're strong.
I guessed it was a disappointment to some analysts that caused that one to drop.
There's still a good strong company.
I don't think they're -- that didn't have any impact on movement of our vet instruments going through retail, realizing that our veterinary instrument business, some of it goes through retail like the Tractor Supply businesses.
They are exclusive.
Tractor supply is exclusive and with our vet instruments around the United States.
We've got similar situations in other places in the world.
I think our sales of detectable needles may have been down a little bit for the quarter.
That's a product that's used particularly in this line business.
It's a patented product to make sure that if a needle were to happen to be broken in an animal while it was being vaccinated that it would be detected when it went through the metal detectors in the processing plant and not end up in somebody's pork loin on Sunday morning.
That has to do with probably the swine numbers being down a little bit that might have impacted that or quarter-to-quarter changes on where the inventories were.
I think it's still strong.
I think going forward I can get kind of excited about what I see is going to happen, that spread out in the vet instrument area over the next 12 to 18 months, but I see it as kind of life as normal in the next couple quarters as we go forward than what it was.
<UNK>.
<UNK>, this is <UNK>.
Tractor was actually up quite nicely in the first quarter for us.
Our sales for tractor were up.
Yes.
And those are all at decent margins too.
Don't let me forget to remind you that we have our annual meeting coming up on October 6, at 10 o'clock here in Lansing, Michigan, at the University Club of Michigan State.
If anybody is in the vicinity or could be, we'd love to have you.
Probably every bit as important or more important, if you haven't voted your proxies, please find them and vote them.
We've got <UNK> who shared this morning, we have enough proxies in to have a formal holder meeting but we'd still like to get all those proxies in if you've got some proxies that you hadn't voted well, please get those in for us so we can get a full count.
Thank you for staying with us this first quarter.
I'm excited and I think we're going to have an interesting year to report.
Once again, as <UNK> said, we look forward to seeing you here in a couple weeks if you can be here.
Have a good autumn.
Bye now.
