Hey, good morning.
I think so.
I mean, (multiple speakers) it's cyclical, up and down in terms of projects.
It's not sort of cyclical with the economy.
But we're certainly not seeing any slowness out of Riyadh.
They are expanding the project.
So I was reading, somebody sent me a thing this morning, oh, my goodness, Saudi Arabia, they need to borrow money.
They won't have any cash.
They can't do anything.
I mean, wow, I know people do react to a lot of various things.
I do not think Saudi Arabia is going out of business in the next month and-a-half.
I don't think Riyadh is either.
So this is a multi-year contract.
And once you have the work deployed, people have to have the backroom operations.
They can't do it on their own.
So there's a lot of different things that happen.
Now this is mostly a traffic [trans fleet] project, with a lot of upfront opportunity that's more civil engineering.
And as that gets behind us, and actually margins will improve.
Look, we have ample opportunities to go through with TransCore, and the of rest of our businesses to see what the next 12 months, or the next three years looks like.
And we'll be able to share that totality of that picture after the fourth quarter, and when we initiate guidance for 2016.
So I mean, just picking out one piece, yes, we feel very good about that.
But wait for the whole picture.
So it, I mean, so far it has been modestly positive.
But I would say that we're not in those conversations.
We don't set prices.
We help our members negotiate the best pricing and the best supply chain solutions that they can obtain.
But so it's been modestly helpful.
But not by any stretch is it the largest piece of the MHA growth that we have experienced.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Well, here's the situation.
We just signed the agreement.
When we're filing a lot of material, like we do here with HSR, so that's all going into customary merger control reviews.
So we've agreed with the seller that we're not going to provide any information until after the deal closes.
So I can't tell you a lot about that.
But the end markets are quite similar to what happens in -- here in the United States.
The hospitals, while people think that there's universal healthcare in the UK, there's actually a wide variety of provincial providers inside that system, and CliniSys allows these people to have a uniform operating platform around all the things that go on with labs.
And we'll be able to make them be more efficient for the healthcare system, because they'll now get access to our Data Innovations technology, and they'll get access to some of the ways we do things at Sunquest.
So we think from an end user viewpoint, Fiona who has built this very good business in the UK, and recently acquired a business similar to it in Germany, will benefit from providing additional services and clarity to the people that [core] system to drive their laboratory.
So we're bullish about that.
But that's about as far as I can go, <UNK>.
It's probably about 50/50.
And so, as you see global industrial production whether that's around steel or automobiles, so that has generally been a little bit of a positive tailwind.
But you also have a lot of you new and upgraded products, and the expansion of the Struers global reach.
And so, it puts them in very good position to continue to take some share.
And they also have a very good line of other things, not just on the material analysis, their traditional area, but also some new things around hardness testing, and some things they're introducing there that has helped them.
So it's a little bit of both, a little bit of market, a little bit of self help.
Sure.
I, yes, I mean, it will help us out by a couple million, by a couple pennies.
You're welcome.
Okay.
Well, thank you all for joining us this morning, and we look forward to talking to you again in late January.
