Thanks <UNK>.
(multiple speakers) You've had a busy coverage day today.
Yes, go ahead <UNK>.
Yes, let me answer the second question first.
And that's on the cost structure.
So if you could envision what <UNK> and I are sitting in front of, we each have a binder and there are probably 3 inches of financial information in that binder.
And that is night and day versus where we were, say, three years ago.
Just the degree of visibility we have into each one of the businesses at a micro level has grown leaps and bounds.
And it's not just <UNK> and me, but it's each of our divisional Presidents.
And so to answer your question, the answer is absolutely yes.
We believe that by virtue of having more sophistication in how we measure and manage our businesses, we are going to be much better positioned to find opportunities to drive out both cost, improve our efficiencies, and also identify revenue trends as well, and go after those.
And those are really going to be at a granular level.
You win clients one at a time, one product, one pitch, one business at a time.
Likewise you take out costs and improved processes, one process, one client, one contract at a time.
And so while yes, there are certainly going to be things that span divisions, we think turning our divisions loose on the unique levers that each of them have, both revenue and cost, is going to be a big driver of our future success.
Then <UNK>, let me comment on the first part and I'd be the first one to say that if Rick were here with us he could do a far better job than I could in answering your question.
But I will give you my perspective.
First I am, in our audience solutions business, absolutely glass half-full.
I think we've had some tough comps, but I believe that the team that is working with Rick has really identified absolutely the right strategies to go forward.
And <UNK> mentioned those.
It is beef up our sales capability, expand our TAM, get clients that we haven't hit before, look at different ways that we can drive better products through more efficient and better data procurement and fundamentally better data products.
All those things I firmly believe will help this business.
I am also particularly excited in audience solutions with what is going on in, what I'd call our digital ecosystem.
We're distributing our data more places than ever, two-thirds of the GMS that was driven was driven by data and that is a fundamental macro trend that we are going to benefit from.
And Rick and his team are all over it.
So a lot of really good things.
As it relates to the procurement efficiencies, if I have learned anything over the course of my career, is you seldom come in and just do one thing that suddenly creates $10 million of incremental bottom-line benefit.
What you do is to come in and you identify one thing that will identify $1 million and then that leads to another million.
And suddenly you get up to $10 million.
It's a little bit looking at GMS from just a year ago and now thinking that we are over a $200 million run rate from where we were just 12 months ago.
And that's how you do it, you do it a month by month, quarter by quarter.
Andy Johnson, who works with Rick and his team, are doing exactly that.
They have turned over some really positive things.
Now they have to also work through some long-term contracts.
But they are absolutely focused on the procurement efficiencies, doing the right things, creating great products, and then also automating this that it's much more of a DaaS service and a cloud service as opposed to something that is a series of manual processes.
So work in process, but I believe we have the right people doing the right things.
Thank you.
Let me again just thank everyone for joining us today.
We are very pleased to report our results.
We are very pleased with the quarter.
We are happy you are joining us today.
And most importantly we're looking forward to the opportunities for Acxiom in the quarters and years ahead.
Thank you very much.
