Sure.
We're opening Flight 23 shops in conjunction with Footaction, across a number of stores.
So as we remodel Footaction, some of them, like 34th street here in New York, certainly Del Amo out in California, State Street in Chicago, have fantastic Jordan shops that open up, along with Nike Kicks lounges, as well.
So we'll continue to expand that with Nike, as we roll out more -- and brand Jordan, as we roll out more of our Footaction remodels.
The Armory is a one-store build-out, but -- in the Champs doors right now, but we've got plans to expand that in 2016.
We've also taken some of the -- we've taken it down to some wall units inside the store.
So we've got a number of stores with units that look different on the wall, that takes some of the elements of the Armory, and bring it into more Champs stores.
And that effort will also continue, as we roll into 2016.
You know how we operate, <UNK>.
We have a prototype, then we test some things, we test different geographies, we test different size stores, we test different markets.
And once we get a level of confidence with our vendor partners, we accelerate the rollouts.
But both of those are great initiatives, with two really important partners.
Thanks, <UNK>.
<UNK>, we're --
Yes, we're already at 10:00 AM.
So make it short.
<UNK>, I get to be a little bit ambivalent, in that the categories are somewhat driven by our consumer, not driven by me.
So I really have a tremendous amount of respect for the work that our merchants do to get the right product for our consumers.
And I -- one of our strengths is that we are so laser focused on our consumer, by banner.
And as the consumer moves a little bit, as some of those lifestyle preferences change a little bit, as the bottoms that they're choosing to wear, whether it be a Tiro pant or a denim jean, that drives a lot of their sneaker choices.
Sometimes basketball is the perfect silhouette; sometimes running is the perfect silhouette.
But our team does a really, really good job of getting those categories and those products merchandised appropriately.
So I like to drive sales.
I like the customer to wear what they're most comfortable wearing.
And we don't have a bounty on any specific category, to say the least.
We want to drive them all.
I look at our Week of Greatness, which starts tomorrow, <UNK> -- and I know you talked about some of the launches that are upcoming.
I like the way the calendar lines up for us.
The Week of Greatness has got some fantastic shoes that actually start today, with the Curry II, and then roll out significantly over the next week.
Great shoes, across our markets, each day of the season -- or of the Week of Greatness, I should say.
And then when we get to the pre-Christmas launches, again, I like the way the calendar lines up, and the way the shoes line up.
So we have a degree of confidence, certainly, going into the holiday season.
Yes, the allocation tool is up and running, has been for the better part of a year, for our North American business and Europe.
The next phase of it is the order planning module that lets us impact the orders that we write, and that's an early 2016 pilot.
Thank you.
Okay, operator, I think that's all we have time for today.
We appreciate everybody's participation on our call today, and we look forward to having you join us on our next call, which we currently expect will take place at 9:00 AM on Friday, February 26, following the release of our fourth-quarter and full-year earnings results earlier that morning.
Please note that's one week earlier than we have traditionally announced full-year results.
Happy holidays.
Thanks again, and good-bye.
