Hi, <UNK>.
<UNK>, there are two components in that line, right.
There's the commercial, the treasury management revenue and then there's the retail side.
Keep in mind that in the third quarter of 2014, we made our last fair play adjustment of $6 million.
So you're seeing the first full quarter of kind of year-over-year growth off of the consumer side of the business reflecting the great job we do in bringing new households to the bank.
And I'll also tell you that treasury management had a great year in terms of product capability, penetrating the customer base and fee growth.
So certainly encouraged by what we see this quarter and definitely expect the trends to remain intact, especially relative to what you saw previous to this quarter.
Well we continue to invest in the business.
That's part of the plan.
We've been investing every year.
We pace that investment and taper it off.
And then there are other categories of expenses that we would look to.
And some of that would be some of the business expansion in terms of people and related.
Certainly if we didn't see the revenue, the incentives and commissions would be adjusted.
We may adjust some of our discretionary investments in a number of areas that we routinely want to look at.
An example might be marketing.
So hopefully that gives you -- there is a smorgasbord that we're working with.
We do this routinely.
It's part of what we deliver to our Board.
If for some reason the economy starts changing, then we have a series of levels of contingent adjustments.
Thank you.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Hi, <UNK>.
So we -- we're obviously always looking for acquisitions.
I think we've been very consistent in how we talk about it.
I would say for us, there's really no change in terms of activity.
We look at core banking franchises.
We look at opportunities like <UNK>quarie that we had this year and continue to look into six to eight footprint contiguous states.
So I'd say, <UNK>, there's really no change in how we see the environment or how we approach the environment.
It's probably too early to make that call.
I would say it's been consistent in terms of what we see happening.
Thanks, <UNK>.
We're very pleased with our fourth quarter and certainly the full-year 2015 results.
We delivered 13% annual growth in earnings per share and 4% annual growth in tangible book value per share.
2015 results reflected a 12.4% return on tangible common equity and a one-on-one return on tangible -- return on assets.
And as we enter 2016, I'm optimistic -- equally optimistic, I should say, with regard to the year ahead.
Our strategies are working.
Our investments continue to drive results.
And our execution remains focused and strong.
We are gaining market share and we are taking share of wallet.
So we expect to generate annual revenue growth consistent with our long-term financial goals and we'll manage our continued investments in our businesses to the revenue environment.
We continue to work toward becoming more efficient and improving returns.
Finally, I want to close by reiterating that our Board and this management team are all long-term shareholders.
Our top priorities include managing risk, reducing volatility and driving solid, consistent long-term performance.
So I want to thank you for your interest in Huntington.
We appreciate you joining us today.
Have a great day.
