Okay.
On GEP, I have always used the analogy although it's a pharmaceutical business that really given it's in sterile injectables which we sell on quality and barriers to entry, and given it's biosimilars which also will be eventually sold on the quality of the manufacturer and the data we have, and then the emerging markets which is sold on brands and quality, that it sort of looks like a consumer business with just a touch more risk than a normal consumer business.
So perhaps some nice comparables for PEs really ought to be the consumer-like business.
Now you may or may not agree with that, but it is slower growing, growing with GDP just like consumer businesses do, being sold on brands, and then a little more affected because it does have pricing risks and some development risks.
That's how I would look at it.
The first line market share is now 38%.
That's number one.
We have achieved leadership and to have surpassed AI monotherapy.
The second and third line market share are 26% and 14% respectively.
When it comes to duration of treatment, it's too early to assess because as you know the product has been launched a year approximately ago, and PFS duration from the data is around 20 months since PALOMA-2.
So we need some time to assess what will be the actual duration period.
Thank you.
On one hand with 4-1BB, we presented last year at ASCO, and we will provide update during this year.
4-1BB with Rituximab and lymphoma, that had very promising response rate in refectory -- Rituximab patients, about 35%.
We have expanded that study, it looks certainly very promising so that could be one opportunity for moving 4-1BB fast forward.
4-1BB and OX40 are expressed in many tumors in the immune infiltrating cells.
So we will have a broad ambitious program where we see opportunity for these across many different solid tumors and some blood related cancers.
Let me make a correction.
I think I said 20 months in PALOMA-2.
It is 20 months in PALOMA-1.
We haven't disclosed the duration treatment of PALOMA-2.
We'll do that at ASCO.
Thank you everybody for your attention today.
So long everybody.
