I think -- I don't have the numbers to quantify exactly which is which.
Overall, the growth is some modules business and some other newer products.
These are releases of products -- these products release about a couple of years ago, and as you know, the consumer's always -- you can gain revenue very quickly.
This time, we're a lot more pickier and these are revenues that we make sure these are sustainable revenues, and sustainable with the module.
We've also been looking at our revenues.
Consumer revenues as a high-value market, and what we saw is a lot of strength in the high-value market.
We also saw pretty good performance in the rest of the more traditional consumer products, as well.
So we saw growth in both.
I'll first qualify my answer by saying that we don't have as granular view by all the different end markets as we do when we reach the end of the quarter.
But, I can tell you that right now, we expect to see growth in most of the market.
We don't see, at this time, we don't see any difference in all the market segments, MPS percentages very small.
There's a lot of opportunity for us to grow, although we can deviate from an impact from a macro market.
We are very cautious, and we're very optimistic.
In this particular market, we are very optimistic.
We released the products, we have a future [cashing], and I think this product we do very well.
In terms of numbers, we have a lot of design options, a lot of -- a lot more design win activities than before.
That's including VR 12.5 and VR 13.
Let me answer this way, first.
Consumer modules always comes in faster.
Their product cycles' about a year or two or so.
Industrial, automotive always comes later.
This year, we see a lot more activity than in the same period of last year in the industrial and automotive market segments.
On the telecom side, we're still very new.
If I can tell you, we have a lot of design win activities.
Somewhat even slower than automotive.
But very much encouraged by all the design activities from last year and this year.
Infrastructure side, yes.
We are too small to say anything.
All I see is opportunity.
We have some revenues and we picked up customers, picked up the projects.
Really, our customers would appreciate our technology.
Yes.
Currently, our exposure to the notebook side is definitely less than 5%.
Last years cycle, et cetera, we just played in the market very opportunistically.
More excited about opportunities this year, as <UNK> said earlier.
BCD 4, we still lead by our competitor by a wide margin.
The BCD 5, I can tell you this.
Stay tuned, now.
Our product is about in production.
With regard to BCD 3 and 4, I'd say it's approaching 70% of revenue at this point.
Industrial.
I would say, industrial, we saw strength in power sources, in automotive, and smart meters.
This is a market where -- I mean -- we saw strength in those, and security, which had been on a tear for several quarters, was a little softer, I think, in one quarter.
I think it's more a question of customers having bought ahead.
Industrial, overall, could also do very well for us in 2015.
We've been continuing to utilize the test facility in Chengdu very extensively, and we also have some testing done outside, so that there is no limit on our test capacity.
We've also taken -- we're also in the process of expanding our foundry capacity by signing on an additional foundry.
As you see some of the expenses in bringing up this capacity come on, starting late in Q2 and more into Q3, Q4.
In terms of a percentage, we have 600 products and growing.
The utilization and particularly from a percentage of inside and outside, it's typical for us to manage -- spend more money to manage -- spend more money to calculate the percentage than just leaving it as is.
All the product -- all the products in the pipeline or just released, they are much higher than corporate average, corporate margin.
However, I'll say this: the gross margin is in our models.
In this period of time, we should concentrate on the top line growth and the bottom line growth.
The modules revenue, we've seen increased revenue every quarter.
Right now, it's still a small percentage of our revenue.
In terms of revenue, we will be seeing revenue come from more modules as we go in.
We're announcing the revenue from the first few modules that were released over a year ago.
So, I think we already have released something like 12 modules, and then we have a few more that we'll be releasing.
So, as more and more of these modules get released, we also see more design wins coming from them, which will set us up for good revenue growth in the quarters ahead.
Most in the US.
Some ODM.
Rest of the year, yes.
For the VR 12.5, and the VR 13 obviously hasn't really started yet.
Next year pattern could change it a little bit.
I'd like to thank you all for joining us for this conference call, and look forward to talking to you again in July at our second quarter conference call.
Thank you, and have a nice day.
