Thanks.
No.
Nothing really any different than we've seen in the past.
I mean, there's always a scramble for great people in the market.
But nothing -- really no changes that we've seen.
Hard to know what's going to happen a year from now, but you would expect that we would have the absence of that LIFO -- big LIFO charge in the second quarter of next year and see a big year-over-year gain.
It was not that significant.
February was the strongest month, but the differences were not that significant.
But it was a difference that was worth mentioning, because I know you all like to know the cadence of how the quarter progressed.
And we would have viewed the end of the period as being the weaker portion directly related to some of the weather things that we were talking about in the spring, that have now strengthened as spring has gotten here.
Sure.
<UNK>.
No, our plan is to execute the same business plan and strategy that we've executed across the country, as we expand into some of these Northeast markets that are more densely populated and have more cars than people.
Certainly, having parts close to the customer is a critical component of success in our business, and we'll continue to execute the strategy that allows us to have distribution capacity that allows us that availability advantage that's so important, we feel like, to our success.
Okay.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Okay.
Thank you, <UNK>.
Okay, the Leap Year in comps, if we included it, would be -- we would have had a 7.4% comp in the quarter if we had included Leap Day.
I'm unsure of the 30 basis point Easter effect in sales on EPS.
We are open on Easter.
Easter business is just slower.
Yes, I assumed everybody knew that we didn't close the stores on Easter.
We are just not as busy on Easter as we are any other Sunday.
Nothing.
I think that our competitors are very price competitive today.
I think we have always been in a very price competitive business.
So that's always something that we monitor and shop and watch for.
But you know pricing has remained rational for some time and we would expect it to in the future.
Our competitors -- many of them have really good supply chains.
I think ours is, generally speaking, more robust.
And I think that we maintain a availability gap over most of our competitors, but I think some of our competitors are improving them.
And I think they have the ability to improve them.
It simply takes time and execution.
Distribution centers are long-term commitments, so some of the strategies that some of our competitors have in place now are hard things to roll up and change quickly.
But I think, over time, if our competitors have the will and the ability to execute a different supply chain strategy, they will do so.
At the same time, we'll be working to maintain a supply chain and availability benefit and positive GAAP for us, which we been successful at doing in the past.
Different lines and categories.
Different suppliers.
They have been significantly higher than we had planned.
We're not planning those types of numbers in the back-half.
Okay.
Well, our relationship with Broadleaf is simply an effort to refresh and upgrade our web presence, and we are in the process of doing so.
They've got a great platform, and we are enthused about the opportunity to work with such a progressive company.
And we feel like we have some opportunity to improve our Internet presence, and are in the process of doing so.
And I'm sorry, what was your second question.
Yes.
Yes.
It's grown a lot over the last few years.
And we have a very strong Web presence when it comes to B2B, and we have had for a number of years.
I would suspect that we are one of the higher suppliers from a percentage standpoint, when it comes to the percentage of our sales on the professional side that are done electronically.
I actually don't have the percentage in front of me.
It's grown significantly and it will continue to grow.
Still, the vast majority of our business is done via phone call.
It will be -- yes, it's still phone call.
So we have a lot of opportunity, over time, to convert that business to electronic, which we think is pretty sticky.
The customers, once they start using your systems, it can stick with you pretty well.
And then secondly, it creates some efficiency for us at the store by not taking a phone call, and simply receiving a pick ticket and shipping a part.
But the trade-off is, you don't maybe develop as close of a personal relationship with a customer as you would on a phone call.
So there's some trade-offs.
But phone call is still the majority of our professional business.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks, Brandon.
We'd like to conclude our call today by thanking the entire O'Reilly team for our outstanding first-quarter results.
We are extremely proud of our record-breaking first quarter, and remain extremely confident in our ability to continue to aggressively and profitably gain market share, and are focused on continuing our momentum throughout 2016.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining our call today.
And we look forward to reporting our 2016 second-quarter results in July.
Thanks.
