<UNK>, we look at our -- the entire portfolio.
So when we generate incremental cash flow, we look at the entire portfolio.
And I would suspect that the entire boat would be lifted.
We like the Barnett.
We think it's got low risk opportunities.
I think we've commented, in the past couple of calls, that we really have de-risked and completely understand the vertical re-frac opportunity.
And we've got about 30 of the horizontal re-frac opportunities under our belt, and we think we've understood how to do that.
We've got a real positive relationship with our EnLink partners there, so we would consider the Barnett.
We also have some opportunities in Cana, in the drier portion or the leaner portion of that property, as well, that would be just as commercial.
Thank you, <UNK>.
Good morning.
I think that's correct.
I don't know the exact well count, but we have about 140 data points across the industry.
We actually have an ownership position in about 100 of those 140.
In fact, we have data in most of the 140.
We've operated about -- I think about 30, 35 operations.
But again, it's largely being confined, at this point, to the 200 and 300.
Order of magnitude, I think we probably have less than five data points in both the 100 and the 500 zones.
But that cycles back to the comment I started to make earlier, which is how many different zones that we have here in the Delaware Basin, as well as in the STACK play.
And what we're trying to do is get an idea of what the productivity is of each of these zones, what is the optimum spacing in each of these zones.
And we're being very thoughtful about our approach to this so that we are developing and -- fully developing the resource and the value associated with these.
Versus the alternative of just drilling very quickly in one zone, and four wells per section or some fairly broad spacing, and essentially developing -- sub-optimally developing the entire inventory that we have.
We're not doing that.
We are being very thoughtful, very careful, because we are sitting on truly world class resources here, in the hearts of some of the best plays, and we want to generate as much value as we can, long term, from these resources.
We are now at the top of the hour, and while we didn't get to every caller and we apologize for that, we are going to bid you a good day.
We thank you for your interest in Devon and all the good questions.
If you have any other questions, please don't hesitate to follow up with one of us in Investor Relations.
Thank you, and have a great day.
