On customer mix, we have, if I'm answering your question, we have some variation between customers, as to who is doing extremely well with it and who is not as far up the curve yet.
And for those that are doing really well, we're trying to understand what it is that's driving it, and share those best practices.
I would also say, that we rolled out, on balance, a little more than two flats per store, per floor.
And given the success, we're going to push hard to get that third Flex unit, which oftentimes is actually the higher-end part of the line.
We rolled out, more commonly, the first two models in the line.
Because the idea was that we were pulling people up from cheaper price points.
But given the success, we're going to push hard to try to get that third product out there, which we call Elite.
So it's a combination of pushing more Elite and trying to share those best practices that we think will help further improve our success more broadly and more consistently across the trade.
Did I answer your question.
Yes, we have a lot of activity on cost productivity.
It's a huge driver for us right now.
And I'd say there's both opportunity to continue to reduce the current products, as well as apply global leverage, which we've talked about previously, in our buying and our R&D, and so forth.
We're still working very aggressively to try to do both.
So in the shorter term, I would continue to see cost productivity in the current line.
And then we are, at the same time, moving forward with a global project that we've mentioned previously.
Thank you.
Yes, that's about right.
We're expecting to be approaching that three times leverage ratio, <UNK>, at the end of the year, whether it's 3.1 or right in that vicinity.
As <UNK> mentioned, we're looking at approaching that long-term target at the end of the year, or maybe in the first quarter.
So we're obviously, very much looking forward to that, as we think about how to maximize value for shareholders through capital allocation.
That's right, <UNK>.
If you recall that the Investor Day -- you remember correctly.
And also at the Investor Day here earlier this year, we updated that expectation for more like -- we felt like it would be three times.
After we looked at our optimal cash and capital allocation model, we felt three times would be the appropriate place for the Company.
And so, as it relates to hazarding a guess for next year, we're certainly not setting any guidance here today for 2016.
But I'd say that also depends on what we're doing with our total use of cash at that point.
And so, as <UNK> alluded to, that would be something that we'd be looking at as we approach the target here at the end of the year.
I was talking Tempur gross margins.
Yes.
Tempur was about 40.5% in the second quarter last year on gross margin -- Tempur US.
Yes, I said over 600 basis points, so a little better than that.
You can't compare the operating margin, because of the segment changes.
Thanks.
We look forward to talking with you again in late October on our third-quarter earnings call.
Thank you for joining us this evening, and have a good night.
