My pleasure.
I'm very informed on that topic, <UNK>.
Well, no.
I'll just speak for me personally.
Yes, I have expected that if the industry profits recover, which they have, and then we recovered more with lower fuel prices, it's just a natural extension of that is that individual companies are going to be more aggressive and especially the smaller carriers, so I think it's all very predictable.
What the effect of that behavior is, is less predictable.
So we had a plan for 2016.
Its turned out to be more aggressive than our results and we go back and adjust.
But no I don't think it's shocking where we are at all.
And we'll continue to compete very aggressively in this environment and I think we have all of the strengths that we need, mainly the people of Southwest Airlines, to compete and win customers, compete for and win customers.
It would be in the 5% to10% range but just keep in mind, that's very significant percentage of the seats in the industry, but if you're just looking at the network carriers, it would be in the 5% to 10% range.
Well and if I could just, hopefully this helps clarify for everybody.
We're the nation's leading airline.
We're in all the major cities, we're in all the major city pairs and so by definition anybody who grows in the US they will likely be growing in our market so I probably should have made that more common sense argument for the group earlier.
The competition isn't adding seats to small markets.
In fact if anything they're taking seats out of small markets so where they are going where the traffic is and that is our specialty because we are an airline that serves major markets with lots of traffic.
So I think that it's very it should be intuitive for everyone that whether it's a legacy carrier or whether it is a ULCC that they will likely be overlapping with us when they add capacity.
Just as a reminder we carry one in four passengers here in the US and our network is [fast] so I don't think there's really anything surprising in the numbers that we provided.
I don't think it's going to really mean anything.
I think customers will mostly go to www.southwest.com, that's where the super majority of our customers book Southwest and they will see the same www.southwest.com that they know and love.
It is behind www.southwest.com where we will have a new reservation system engine so -- <UNK>, I think for the most part it's going to be invisible to our customers so they won't know that they're making a booking in a new system as far as I can recall.
That's exactly right.
The ease-of-use with www.southwest.com will continue exactly like it is today and for customers booking there they really won't see any change.
I'd have to think about that.
I don't think there's anything that is customer experience-wise that they will see, so this is all back office things.
Now, <UNK> has staffed up in our call centers significantly in anticipation of a new system that will take longer for our people to work with just because of a learning curve.
We'll have all of the resources we need so that should be transparent to the customer as well.
But other than that, I don't think the customer, even in that I don't think the customer is going to see anything different.
They won't.
Well he's staffed up already because they need to go through training and they need to know what it's like to talk to a customer, to make a booking and work through changes in all those things before we add the new technology, all that is in place and I think <UNK> is going to -- between <UNK> and <UNK> they will have trained about 20,000 employees with this new reservation system.
One other thing real quick, <UNK>, since you're on this topic is remember that we launched international service in mid 2014 and that is using the technology that we are now converting the rest of our reservation system to, so we already have a lot of experience with this current technology and so I'm expecting that this is going to go very well.
$24 million.
Well my hearing is good and I understand.
I think my answer is consistent which is if we want to improve RASM we don't want to charge back fees because that would only have a negative effect on our RASM.
We have a unique and beloved position in the industry with this approach and we would be foolish to squander it, so no thought whatsoever with charging bags.
Beyond what we already do of course.
Which is modest.
Well, Rich, right now there's none planned for 2017.
Las Vegas is obviously as you know an extraordinarily important market for Southwest and one that we have tremendous community relationships with.
We will continue to keep it very high in our consideration set, but the focus for next year we'll be following up or following through with our Houston Hobby launch, we're obviously just getting started in Cuba and LAX to Mexico and then we'll be launching Fort Lauderdale so that keeps us really busy for the near term.
Rich, let me get back to you on that one.
I want to make sure I give you an accurate answer and that has not been my focus.
So I want the most up-to-date information.
Thanks Tom.
As always if our media folks have any follow-up questions reach us at 214-792-4847 or via our media web portal at www.swamedia.com.
Thanks so much.
