Thanks, <UNK>.
Good morning, <UNK>.
Yes, <UNK> can answer that.
Yes.
We've had some property tax appeals and true ups this quarter that's probably a couple pennies of the adjustments, that certainly stands out this quarter.
I'd say half of that is probably one time and some of that does go forward.
yes, it does.
Yes.
I won't comment, <UNK>, on other people's deals or strategies or speculate on M&A.
We're very focused on executing our plan which as you know is not based on transaction, but on executing on serving our customers and our deep inventory of -- and backlog of investments that we've identified, $30 billion, noting none of that has any premiums on it, so very focused on execution there, continue to monitor the trends in the marketplace, but not in focus for us.
I wouldn't think of it as pulling any 2017 spending forward.
As you think about -- and that's predominantly on the gas side of the business.
As you think about the $20 billion of identified investments on the gas side, we generally have flexibility within our regulatory programs to execute on that as conditions are favorable.
I've noted that we had favorable weather conditions during the first half of this year, meaning the ground wasn't frozen, we could continue working through the early part of the year.
So just continuing to work through that backlog of identified investments, not specifically pulling anything forward from next year into this year.
Thank you.
Thanks, <UNK>.
That's -- the best way to think about that, <UNK>, is the early estimates were very much the high level estimates, and as we came into this year, we updated with refined detailed estimates on that project.
Reflected changes in design, very prudent changes in design relative to the type of construction, the tower sizes and the spans on the construction, all very consistent with other designs that we've made in other projects and is seen in the market place.
So really not even inflationary, just an update to the design.
Not on that one.
We don't expect any.
yes, that's correct.
We're looking at both earnings and dividends as the base for the share.
Thanks, <UNK>.
At any point in time, Greg, we look at all the jurisdictions, we try to ensure that our regulatory strategy maintains pace with our investment strategy.
That's a mix of base rate cases as well as the tracker programs that are up and running across electric and gas.
In general the earnings profile ebbs and flows around 10% across the Nisource -- ROE across the Nisource portfolio, and pretty close to allowed in most cases, so no significant concerns about under earnings in a specific jurisdiction.
We are not updating previous guidance on outlook beyond 2016.
We're updating 2016, again, based on strong momentum this year and an opportunity to work through favorable weather conditions.
We continue to have reaffirmed the guidance of 4% to 6% in EPS and dividend growth on notionally a $1.4 billion annual CapEx program.
This is <UNK>.
No, at this point we're still in great shape from a balance sheet standpoint and the credit metrics, and as we reported, Fitch did upgrade us this last month or in June to BBB and stable.
So we feel really confident about the balance sheet and don't see any immediate need for equity.
Thanks, Greg.
Good morning, <UNK>.
Thank you, Michelle.
Again, I appreciate the interest and the support and for joining us today.
Hopefully you see continued execution and continued momentum of the Nisource story as we reported our results on the second quarter.
We look forward to sharing continued updates on our progress in the months ahead.
Have a great day.
