Sure.
I can comment on it.
And this year 2016 revenue especially all these growth drivers.
And these products all released about two years, two or three years ago.
One is obviously in the auto segment.
And the other one the cloud computing, the high end computing.
That's including some work stations and high end notebooks and also the servers and the data centers.
And other ones are industrial.
Is it <UNK>.
Is not as good as the last year's.
Similar, right.
Industrial is going to be doing very well.
The three I would emphasize would we Industrial, Storage and Cloud Computing and Consumer, particularly the high end consumer.
Also, Auto.
Right.
Auto is included in industrial.
Okay.
I don't know that the percentage of total revenue, I don't know what the number is because all of the segment, other segment will grow faster and Consumer probably grows the slowest.
Revenue wise I don't see what decreased.
We continue to grow.
Year-over-year the high value consumer is continuing to be a bigger portion of our consumer revenues.
But if you're comparing quarter over quarter, since Q3 was much stronger seasonally for consumer, that would impact our high value consumer revenue as well.
But year-over-year what we are seeing is even if you look at a quarter year-over-year, we are seeing bigger portions of consumer revenue coming from the high value consumer market.
Yes.
Both, yes.
In coms, I would say networking and telecom was relatively flat with the prior quarter.
Most of upside that we saw was in the gateway business where a quarter before we had seen weakness.
So if I look out into Q1, I expect from a networking and telecom it will be flat, and Q1 on the gateway business it depends on how the macro plays out.
If you remember, the gateway is an area where it's not a strategic focus.
It's something that we play opportunistically depending upon the margins for the orders that we receive.
My expectations is that the gateway business is going to be flat and maybe even slightly down.
Remember we had been talking about the new foundry that is coming up and we'd identified the cost of bringing up the new foundry at $3 million.
This is between the mask set costs as well as the wafer development costs, and we ended up spending only about a $0.5 million dollars in 2015 so we will be spending about $2.5 million in 2016 on that.
The other thing that we also commented is that we have begun our investments in Industrial and automotive markets so that is going to be something that going to be driving OpEx expenses this year.
Let me comment on the expense side.
It is clearly, we have a very outstanding product for automotive and industrial.
Our quality is exceptional.
However, we need investment in the systems.
In the quality systems and MPS just have those products just by brilliant design engineers and our peoples.
Now, we need to invest in the infrastructures.
And there is a lot to be done in there which will overall elevate the Company's quality.
And so in 2016, it is time we should do that.
But depend on how much.
How much is really depending what MPS' growth rate.
And during the Analyst Day last year and I said that with our OpEx always grows a little more than half of what the revenue grows.
So this years would be just slightly higher and also we are really controlled depending on the revenue growth.
Just a reminder we talked about our OpEx growth rate would be 50% to 60% of the revenue growth rate and while we expect to be higher this year that does not include the new product cost for the new foundry coming up.
You're welcome.
If you see the fast trending products, we are very opportunistic.
May be more or may be less.
These are not our core interest.
We do have, I underline, a very solid LED product customers.
These are really for the decorating lighting, industrial lighting.
If you have a fast-growing revenue we are very opportunistic to take those revenues if we have the capacity.
Well, competing with a competing solution, I don't see anybody that has anything close to what MPS had.
We are leading by far.
In the past few years, a couple of years, it has been much further now.
And so BCD-5's and we have first a few products and we are launching now with all of the programmable features in it.
One of the key things I would also add, while BCD-5 that makes it special, is that we've also added memory and digital capability.
I wish we have all of the other infrastructure business.
We don't have that much.
Also, to add to that, the networking and telecom area has been doing well right through the year.
So the weakness in the second half was more attributable to the gateway business which is an area, like I said, we only play it opportunistically, if the prices are attractive then we will take that business.
Otherwise, we may not take it in a particular period.
Thank you all for joining us on this call and look forward to talking to you at the Q1 earnings call.
Have a nice day.
Bye bye.
