Certainly, as we talked before, <UNK>, we have a major product cost initiative going on at our Premium segment that is part of the $235 million in deal synergies and cost savings.
Again, that is $25 million in FY17 and $25 million in FY18 that is driven by product cost product reductions.
I think other than that, I would probably throw it over to <UNK> to talk about some of the things that they are working on from a platforming standpoint.
Yes.
<UNK>, I'll start off.
The second half of the month was Presidents Weekend we were promotional during Presidents Weekend, as we planned to be.
But we were at similar levels (technical difficulty) so we feel that the second half of the month was a pretty good harbinger, hopefully, of what this spring will be, but it has been very choppy.
So we feel pretty good, but until we start hitting the big numbers as we get closer to Easter, we are not really going to know for sure.
Online versus our brick-and-mortar is a little more challenging to parse out, just because one is a variable-cost model and one is a fixed-cost model.
On an incremental basis, clearly we'd love to have that incremental dollar through our brick-and-mortar channel.
On the other hand, on a variable-cost basis, because of our low cost of operating, with our fulfillment center, et cetera, it's a very acceptable margin.
It's just the economics of the two are a little different.
Yes, we do.
But I'm going to let <UNK> give a little bit more color on our ship-from-store capabilities.
Thanks, <UNK>.
I think the -- <UNK>, why don't you go first.
Yes, <UNK>, the $150 million did not have anything related to store rationalization.
As you heard <UNK> earlier, I think we feel that there is a nice upside with this and I think we will be prepared to talk about it next quarter.
It's a good question.
We don't think we are losing share, but I do think that mall traffic in general, is down, if you look at the shopper track numbers.
There's certainly more competition out there.
You heard about some of the initiatives at JCPenney and Kohl's.
You've probably heard about some of the online retailers that are focused on large size.
But I think with that we are in a good position for two reasons.
One, our Cacique business is a big strength in the large-size intimate industry.
We are really the fashion leader and we have got the strongest brand position there.
And that is about a third of our business, so it's a big driver of both traffic to the stores, as well as online.
Secondarily, we think that our merchandise continues to improve.
We have brought in a new merchant and we will see a little bit of her impact later this spring.
And certainly she'll own fall.
So we're really excited about the direction she is taking the business, as well as a new designer that will be coming on board imminently.
So yes, it is very competitive out there and we like our positioning.
And yes, we have to work harder to earn the traffic and earn the comp sales.
But we have got a lot of initiatives underway and we're very bullish on the future of that brand.
Thanks, everyone.
