We have not seen them yet.
We obviously keep it healthy how our stuff is integrated with the link on premise, and we try make sure we do all of the various integrations.
But for these larger ones, we have not seen Microsoft in there.
We obviously always stay vigilant.
And I think your note referenced -- I think what you talked to all the CIOs at Gartner, and they were not looking at them.
I think for us, this complexity of a global, single communications platform is non-trivial, and I think we are uniquely positioned to provide it.
We are continuing to model them with the same high service gross margins that we have today.
We have close to 2,000 mid market and enterprise customers, and that is what we are seeing from them.
So we expect that trend will continue even with these larger deals.
Great question.
And you know what.
That is the part that I love about our strategy, if I may say so myself.
They are thinking about communications platform as the foundation on which they build.
So deploy this, and then they again are looking for one vendor, and seamlessness between all of these various applications.
So if you think about it, in our system as you'll start to see over the next few months, you will be literally able to go from video, voice, chat, collaboration, sharing, whether it's your iPad, your iPhone, your android phone, your desk phone, your laptop.
With literally one, two, three clicks.
And I think that they view as huge.
In a lot of instances, they have paying very high legacy costs for some of the vendors that you describe.
In most instances, they have already started conversations about how to replace that.
So we view that as very, very powerful, and we think that's a huge differentiator for us.
Yes, I think we consistently have increased greater than $6 to $7.
So I think that's probably the right number to look at.
Thank you.
So we do have volume pricing.
We do price based on the value of the MRR.
Certainly, we're going to price at a lower level to someone who has much higher MRR than a single or two-line customer.
Absolutely, there's going to be a little bit of a discount on a high level on the big deals.
But at the end of the day, it's one customer with 7,000 lines as opposed to many, many customers to try to get the 7,000 lines.
I will be very, very happy when it happens.
So I don't want to speculate.
But let's just say within the next 12 to 18 months if things go well, it could end up being by far our largest customer.
They are great guys.
We are very impressed with the team.
They are very organized, very thoughtful, they have a plan.
As I said, we are starting already on I think four locations or so.
The intent is to do 140 locations as a first rollout.
They want to move pretty fast.
Some good things can happen, but I don't want to give you a sense yet of how big it is going to be.
Let's just say I am pretty happy with that account, and it could be transformational.
Again, everybody, thank you all for listening on today's call.
We look forward to providing continued updates on our progress at our upcoming investor conferences and meetings.
Again, thank you very much.
