Yes, I don't know if we can give you a lot more color on that, <UNK>.
At a broad stroke, you are not --
So, <UNK>, what we have said is that both the access business and the CMTS businesses are big businesses, and they are, and really we haven't gone much further than that.
I don't know, <UNK>, what do you think.
I don't -- my sense is there wasn't much of a change there, but --
No, I would say more broadly just the continued investment around next-generation entertainment experiences was probably the larger factor versus Rio specifically.
And certainly, many of the service provider customers that we work with put programs and marketing campaigns around the Olympics and the viewing experience that they can get, but I don't know that that unto itself was a big item in the quarter.
Well, it sounds like when you were doing your math, you were only considering Comcast, and, of course, we have added Charter to the mix.
I suspect that's part of it.
And, of course, as the share value changes from the point of time where we -- from inception, that really does change the Black Scholes value of it.
So, many things to the puzzle, but it sounds like you might be not considering the Charter piece, Kyle.
<UNK>, welcome to the (multiple speakers).
Glad to hear you on the call.
So, <UNK>, maybe I will make a few comments.
You can jump in.
So on the ramp, it depends a lot on the timing of the announcement.
There are some times we will announce something and we are still in development, and there is other times the announcement is concurrent with launching and deploying.
So, it is a little hard to put a complete finger on it, but usually there is a lag of some sort, <UNK>, right, between an announcement and actual deployment of some sort, right, but it's usually within a six-month period or something like that.
DOCSIS 3.1, if you want to answer that, clearly there is a cycle ahead of us there.
Yes, so we view DOCSIS 3.1 as being, I will say, the next big -- at least from a CPE broadband perspective, the next big DOCSIS upgrade cycle, and while we have talked about initial product certifications and some early shipments, we think there is a broader transition or migration that is going to happen throughout, starting maybe in earnest in 2017, but certainly well into 2018 as well.
I view it similar to the DOCSIS 2 to DOCSIS 3 migration in some respects, although 3.0 had a number of upgrades buried in it unto itself.
But we view that transition happening, and also I would point out that Wi-Fi is closely coupled in there as well in terms of we're seeing upgrades take place now to introduce the latest in Wi-Fi technologies, and I think that gets coupled in with the 3.1 rollout that we expect to see in 2017 and 2018.
Okay, great.
Well, we just want to thank everyone for joining.
I know it is a busy season, so taking the time, we really appreciate it.
Lots of good questions.
Look forward to seeing you at some of these upcoming events, and if not, maybe at CES in Vegas in January.
So, thank you.
Thanks, everyone.
That concludes our call.
