Absolutely.
Thanks for the question, <UNK>.
So I think you're exactly right.
What we are in the midst of is really looking at all of our marketing spend and where the most effective marketing spend is.
And that's not just what marketing dollar drives the most sales, but segmenting our marketing between what marketing drives the most new customers, what is the best for retention, and so forth.
And we're finding a lot of interesting things along the way.
I think a lot more to come.
For some of our brands it's about the right merchandise that appeals to a new customer and we're getting great insights on that.
Some of it is the marketing vehicle itself.
So it varies and part of the journey that we're on.
In terms of the cross-brand marketing, that is probably -- it's a terrific opportunity for us.
And we've seen, as we do cross brand marketing, we do it in a respectful way for our customers, where they don't feel like they're being bombarded but they feel like they're getting a respectful introduction.
We are getting great response.
I think it's important to remember that outside of maybe the people that are listening to us today and the people who live in Fort Myers and Naples, people don't know that White House Black Market and Chico's are in any way related.
And only some people know that Soma is related to Chico's.
And so the opportunity exists in the fact that those are three separate distinct and unique files and we can see cross-shopping there and incent more behind the scenes.
But it's a delicate balance too, because you want to have those clean sharp edges at the front of your brand and at the front of the house.
And whether a very dedicated and loyal White House Black Market customer would necessarily want to be incented at Chico's is something that we've got to be very careful about.
However, I think the opportunity to leverage and understand those three customer bases better is a big part of that actioning retail science bucket.
And then secondly, as it relates to adding newness to that customer bucket, and I'll speak primarily to Chico's, I think sometimes people forget there's a 55-year-old born every minute.
Everyone thinks that the top of our file is quote, unquote, aging out or worse.
But the fact is, people are coming into that bucket at the same rapid rate.
And if you look at the aging population of the US and that aging boomer market, there's a tremendous amount of people in our core demographic.
And there continues to be more people added to that core demographic each and every day.
It's our job to make sure that our brand is current, that it's modern, that it's relevant, that it's speaking to the upper and lower end of what is one of the widest psychographics and demographics in specialty retail.
And we've got to please both ends of that spectrum.
The modernization and the newness of that brand and its increasing penetration online gives me a lot of confidence there.
Thank you.
Thank you, Andrew.
We do apologize for any questions that we weren't able to get to today, so as always we are available for follow-up afterwards if necessary.
And now I'm going to turn it back over to Shelley for some closing comments.
Great.
Thanks, everyone, for listening today.
As you can see, we're working hard to transform our Company for our customer today and for the future.
And we're executing on our cost reduction and operating efficiency initiatives.
We have redesigned our organizational structure to make us more nimble and responsive to our customers' needs and our progress is already evident in the savings that we have seen.
So successful completion of our initiatives and the development of additional revenue opportunities will position Chico's FAS to drive substantial growth and increased shareholder value.
So thanks, everyone, and thank you for your interest in Chico's FAS, Inc.
