You know, <UNK>, that's something we do talk about from time to time.
We do feel it's certainly a potential opportunity for a return to shareholders.
It's obviously relatively easy to implement, so you can do it in a relatively short period of time.
Our priority still remains on investing in acquisition growth potential.
And we do continue to actively look at a lot of opportunities in the market.
Not seeing a lot that we would consider to be great fits, as we speak today, but there are opportunities out there and we continue to explore those.
So, it's something we do consider and will consider.
We don't want to just accumulate cash on the balance sheet indefinitely.
So, as you know, we've done a couple special dividends over the last seven or eight years, when we've gotten into a situation -- not a lot different than where we've been today.
So it is something that we do talk about from time to time.
Thanks, <UNK>.
The newest ones are the Marzetti vineyard dressings and veggie drizzles.
And it is too early there to tell, other than the trade reaction has been very positive to both those.
But just now getting on the shelf, so really don't have a strong feel for how that's going to play out with the consumer yet.
<UNK>, at this point, no.
Nothing real specific to talk about there, but we obviously are getting some experience now in working in the deli with the Flatout brand, and with the team that we brought over from Flatout that's been very helpful in helping us learn and understand that category in the supermarket.
So, we do anticipate we can take advantage of that, hopefully, with some product innovation, and perhaps some of our existing products, but perhaps more importantly, acquisition ideas.
It has a fair amount of growth capacity available to it today, yes.
You know, it's kind of a combination of three things, <UNK>.
One is just the general industry, I think, is stronger and is seeing growth.
And then there certainly are some chains that are outperforming, and we are fortunate to be aligned with two or three of those that are doing better than average.
And then the third would be again these limited-time-offers where we had some strong events like that going on during the quarter.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Well, yes, we do have the uptick that's particularly targeted at Sister Schubert's in the second quarter, which is their seasonal peak period.
But we do anticipate more consumer spend year-over-year throughout the balance of the fiscal year.
And that is across different products, different brands over that period of time.
Yes.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
The -- you know, you raise a great point, and we all remain a little anxious as to what might happen as the birds do migrate south.
We are in constant contact with all of our egg suppliers.
And while I don't think any of them can guarantee our supply, they have been working on certainly increased biometric security around all of their egg-producing facilities, and there's been quite a bit of press on that, as you are well aware of.
So I think we are in a good position with our suppliers.
And we have -- we use several suppliers, so we are not dependent upon any one.
And we just remain guarded for the next several weeks and months as we work our way through this period.
Sure.
Well, thank you again for joining us this morning.
We'll look forward to talking to you late in January with our second-quarter results.
