I just kind of add of course the other big driver is we -- there are some of the large projects that have to await PUC approval as well.
So we did the implementation and go live at the end of June, it was June 22, on the consumer side, and sort of this individual proprietor small business group, that is over and well adopted by our consumers.
We have the additional cut over on medium and larger businesses with some more of the higher-end commercial functionality that we didn't have in offering far before.
So it's a nice upgrade of our capabilities and features for customers.
We've brought new features into the market.
So we're excited about that.
We are going to be doing some advertising around that coming up soon.
And yes, we do expect that the combination on consumer and commercial will give us savings at the operating cost line starting from the fourth quarter of this year.
I'm sorry.
It will be -- so by the fourth quarter, we will be completely cut over on the new ones and completely out of the old one.
The termination charge that we took which was about a little over $1 million for the previous systems is the entire one.
So, you won't see an additional charge related to that.
Correct.
Yes, we throw that out.
So, in the terms of basis points, I think we were down -- it was about 5 basis points impact this quarter, last quarter, higher amortization last quarter, that's the quarter-over-quarter difference, about 5 basis points.
Right.
So, the number for overall growth for the year is a little more than that.
We're ahead of our target.
We're at the high end of the asset growth range that we set to at the mid-single digit growth.
So, we think that -- as we look towards the end of the year with what we expect to be pay-offs, completions of certain projects, resolution of other projects that our asset growth in the second half will be less than in the first half.
So, you won't see the need for that provision for growth and you'll -- we expect with the resolution of some of the other project exposures and criticized assets that we will get some benefit from those that help us stay in that range.
No, it's all volume.
Obviously, the market was very strong.
I think all of our peers in the market showed very strong volume growth and as I mentioned, as we try to continue to bring down the relative concentration of the risk book in our book, we are -- things that are saleable are generally being sold and so that's contributed to the increase in (technical difficulty).
It was strong.
You're talking about the utility when you talk I believe about current ROE versus the allowed, so the ROACE guidance is approximately 8% against a consolidated utility network allowed ROE of about 9.8%.
Yes, I'll offer an initial comment and then Tyane can pick up, so what would you can anticipate from us is some rate case filings now.
As you've indicated, we're independent again, we were always independent, but now with no intentions to be married as it were and so you'll see a rate case filing on the Big Island or the Hawaii Electric Light Company and then on Oahu for Hawaiian Electric Company as we get further into this year.
So that's one topic and I'll let <UNK> pick up from here.
<UNK>, I don't have much to add to that because that is what we're doing with the next couple of rate cases that we have on tap there required under the decoupling mechanism.
And we do have, like you said, the Hawaii Electric Light rate case test year 2016 followed by the Oahu Hawaiian Electric rate case using a 2017 test year, that's our opportunity to reset our cost.
I would just to add, you probably recognize that we have to get back on track with the every three year rate case filing cycle that is required to enter a coupling mechanism and so the year for Hawaii Electric Light was actually this year, so had we been on our normal schedule we would have actually given notice that, that case would have been filed a summer ago and then we would be in the midst of that rate case now.
So, HELCO will be on the 2016 cash year, but we will also be filing Oahu for the 2017 cash year, because that's their year to go in.
And those two are depicted an appendix slide 28.
So it's been quite some time I believe since you've seen that.
It's important because Hawaii Electric Light has been six years because there was a deferred case in [2013].
And in the mean time we've been working with the trackers that are helping us there.
