Well, our approach to new students is to focus on building a brand so that when people are contemplating returning to college, as part of their due diligence, they are going to consider Strayer University.
The specific initiatives that we are focused on really revolve around our affiliated channel.
That is one we are very actively trying to grow and build, and that is really a two-pronged approach.
It is deepening the relationships that we have with national accounts, and that means expanding the numbers of arrangements we have and also the numbers of students that we get from each individual one.
And there is a lot of work that goes into that, activating those relationships at a deep level.
And we think we are aided in the fact that we have 78 physical locations, and within those communities, our campus staff members are able to network and make relationships at a local level with these various employers.
So that is a big part of what we do.
The other thing is obviously Strayer@Work.
We created what we consider to be a pretty groundbreaking program with degrees@Work.
We have -- yes, Chrysler Automotive is the first customer.
We expect that, over time, we will have thousands of students from that relationship.
So, in terms of specific initiatives, that is where our management team is focused.
In terms of unaffiliated students, we obviously welcome them.
We want to do a good job educating them.
To the extent that we are building brand and advertising, it may or may not reach them, but in terms of a specific initiative to try to get more unaffiliated students, we are actually doing the opposite.
We are trying to build the affiliate channel to be as big as we can get it.
Well, we hope the mix shift continues to more affiliated students.
We expect that that will be the case, and we also expect that there will be quarters where the unaffiliated segment grows.
That has happened in the past.
This particular quarter --
No, I was just going to say, the longer trend line will be to more affiliated new students and fewer unaffiliated students.
No, the startup costs will be quite low.
For the most part, we will be using existing Strayer University facilities, meaning our campuses that requires virtually no change to the footprint.
Really, the only startup expenses are a handful of people that are needed to teach the courses, maybe an administrator, so that the startup and operating expenses are actually pretty low.
No.
Good question, <UNK>.
It means students who are enrolled in Strayer University in a degreed program.
There is other revenue at Strayer@Work that is non-degreed, and I am not including that in those comments.
Yes.
Only to the extent that it would be material, and at this point, it is not.
Thank you.
Yes.
Thank you.
It is a big part of what we are planning for this year.
So we are into a multi-year effort to really focus on outcomes and retention.
And we started down a three-pronged strategy, <UNK>, really.
And the first one was just really getting better at adaptive learning.
So being able to deliver up highly personalized interventions to people, particularly early on in their first year, where the vast majority of attrition happens over a cohort's lifetime.
So we have been pretty successful at that.
We have talked a lot, I think, about our use of predictive analytics.
That was a game changer for us, too.
We were able to really hone in on what drives both faculty engagement and student engagement, and that has been a big driver of the retention gains that we have had.
The third and final prong of that is to try to reinvent online learning, really.
Online learning tends to be boring, dull, in some cases, and so we are creating an internal, what we are calling, studio.
But it is really -- it is part filmmakers, part instructional designers, part faculty subject matter experts, to really redefine what an online course is, to use more short form documentary, nonfiction storytelling.
Because what we know from our experience with adaptive learning, if students will just take the time to interact with the material, they, by and large, are very successful.
The problem is, the material has not sort of kept up -- the quality and engagement of the material has not kept up with the advancement in analytics and adaptive learning, and we are trying to address that by really creating very immersive content.
We have done a couple of courses as tests, and the results have been really positive.
We have seen retention gains in excess of 500 basis points when we have run these tests, so we think that there is a lot of opportunity here.
And it will be the primary focus of our academic leadership team over the next 12 to 18 months to take every one of our high-volume courses and build it with this sort of storytelling arc and really try to redefine what an online course even is.
It will all be part of what we expect to be our normal spin on CapEx.
We think we're going to be able to produce these courses in a very economic way.
And when you are leveraging talent across 10 or 20 or even 30 very high-volume courses, the actual cost per course is not that significant.
And so we are just looking forward to getting them rolled out.
For the quarter, it is not.
It is actually down.
But for the year, we still expect higher CapEx, <UNK>, than last year by a few million dollars.
You know, when we get to a point where we are going to roll one out, we would be happy to do a demonstration for you, <UNK>.
Happy to let you kind of see what we think a course could look like.
The team is working on the first one.
It is an introductory business course.
It is kind of, let's say it is in the early 10% done range, but we are hoping to have it done before the end of this year in time for our fall term, and we would love to give you a demonstration of it.
