Thank you.
Yes.
We would tell you that for 2016 in terms of saw logs overall, we would anticipate volumes would be flat to maybe down just very slightly.
In terms of lumber and OSB, part of that, of course, will be dependent on markets, but as we continue to improve our reliability, we would think lumber and OSB volumes would be up slightly in 2016 versus 2015.
I think it's more related to the fact that we're logging at sustainable levels.
As we said, we have the ability in any given year to flex 5% or maybe a little more depending on markets.
We'll see how that plays out and that will ultimately determine what the harvest levels are.
But basically, we are harvesting at sustainable levels.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, and thank you for everybody's interest today.
Before I -- or in closing today, I want to say some words about <UNK> as this will be her last earnings call on behalf of Weyerhaeuser as she will retire later this year.
Specifically, I want to acknowledge her outstanding work as the CFO since 2007, and personally thank her for partnering with me over the last couple of years as we've taken significant steps to make Weyerhaeuser a truly great Company.
Thank you, <UNK>, for all you've done for Weyerhaeuser.
Well, <UNK>, let me just, before you close the call, interject one additional thank you to the analyst community on the call.
We are very fortunate as a Company to have a whole host of very knowledgeable people, and I've enjoyed the dialogue over the years.
And as I do retire from Weyerhaeuser now, I feel very confident in the management team going forward, really pleased with the progress that we've made on portfolio performance and capital allocation and couldn't be more pleased with my successor once we close this transaction, Russell Hagan.
I think that as we go forth since I will continue to be a significant shareholder, I think that we have a lot of additional capabilities and levers to pull to create ongoing value for shareholders.
So, <UNK>, thanks to you, and thanks to the whole senior management team and employees of Weyerhaeuser.
Thank you, <UNK>.
And thanks, everyone, for joining us this morning, and thank you for your interest in Weyerhaeuser.
