Clearly, we are trading below $10, which kind of puts that on the table.
We're not at $2 or $3 or $4, which would absolutely put it in front of the table, but that's a decision for the Board.
We talk about it, if that's something we decide to pursue, we will be transparent with you all going forward.
<UNK>, included in our 2017 guidance is a range of between $1 million and $3 million of additional lingering transaction costs that will run through our 2017 numbers.
I would say Atlanta continues to have strong demand.
We haven't seen any dip in terms of lease volume.
The total square footage leased in the city in 2016 is a little lower than it was in 2015.
But just like on the lease we just executed with WestRock, we continue to see good opportunities in the best buildings near transit to drive good results.
In terms of Avalon, usually when we do a building like this, our goal is to be sort of in the 40% to 50% leased range when the building opens, because particularly in a mixed-use environment like Avalon, a lot of it is letting people see it so they can understand the true value offering that we have there.
And I'm confident we will be in that range by the time we open it.
The pipeline looks really strong, and we're feeling pretty confident about where 8000 Avalon sits.
Good morning, it's <UNK>.
In terms of the taxability of those two asset sales, and whether they would require a special distribution on our part, the answer is currently, no.
We don't anticipate either of those sales generating the requirement for special distribution.
<UNK>, this is <UNK>.
We continue to see some build-to-suit opportunities.
Not anything that we can see on the very short-term horizon, but those things pop up, usually where you know a quarter or two in advance, and you're pursuing them, and you have a little bit better things.
We don't have any visibility on anything in our portfolio that I would put in that sort of short time frame.
In terms of the acquisition market, as we look both within our own portfolio in cities, as well as future cities we look at, it is the importance of our balance sheet strategy.
If when we start to see markets that meet our standards in terms of where we want to be, we also want to be patient and make sure we buy assets at the right time to get the kind of results that our portfolio demands, and that is the reason that we are, as <UNK> said, keeping our powder dry.
<UNK>, it is <UNK>.
A lot of the transaction costs went on Parkway's books at or before the time of the merger.
So, you won't see the full $85 million show up through our numbers, because it is a combination of our expenses and theirs.
But when you combine the two together, we believe that the total transaction costs are going to come in right around $85 million.
I think we're going to hit that number.
At exactly $0.06 a share per quarter.
We will relocate this summer to a Cousins-owned building.
3344 in Buckhead.
Raleigh-Durham market is one that we have looked at.
I wouldn't say it is on the top of our list going forward, for various reasons.
So, I would look at the Carolina Square as more of a one-off opportunity, although that always can change as cities change and demographics change.
But it would not be on the top of our list.
Thanks, <UNK>.
We, as always, appreciate your interest in our Company.
2016 was obviously a fantastic year, and we are optimistic as we look forward to 2017 and appreciate your continued interest.
If you have any questions, as always, the management team is available, and just feel free to reach out.
Thanks so much.
