So for the year in '16, our SBA revenues were $2.2 million.
I think in the fourth quarter, they were around $1 million.
So the first quarter, there is seasonality in the first quarter.
So we did $300,000 in the first quarter.
That compared to essentially nothing in last year's first quarter.
And we would expect that $300,000 as we go through the year to ramp up again like it did last year each quarter.
And we do expect for the year to be probably closer to the $3 million number as compared to $2.2 million.
Look, in the other income -- noninterest income, Frank, you do have the SBA gains in that line item, so that's part of the reduction that you're seeing linked quarter.
We also had some branch gains in the fourth quarter relative to the sale of branches.
So year-over-year, we were up 8% in the first quarter.
And right now, we believe that we can be in that range for the year.
We believe that we have a program in place that meets the needs and we have -- it's -- the whole process is -- gets complicated because we have 6 different regulators involved.
So we are -- actually have one exam going on now, but we would expect over the next 4 to 6 months to have probably 3 more.
So -- and at the end of the day, it's their decision as to whether they agree with us or not.
Matt, I think the way to think about that is that within the 3.26%, you do have some impact relative to the interest income on nonaccrual loans.
But other than that, I think as you look forward, that would be the way to think about it in terms of that impact on that 3.26%.
We said 3 basis points.
Again, it's hard to predict the amount of interest income we could have on nonaccrual loans.
We don't try to forecast that but that's the element that's in that.
Well, the first priority is to consolidate our charters into one.
The second priority is to begin branching again.
We have not added a new branch in 5 years.
The third priority is to begin to consider acquisitions.
But just let me remind you that we still have the Department of Justice investigation also and we don't know the timing of that, so that's a factor in all of this also.
To the Department of Justice.
Similar to the BSA.
Yes.
So in our 5-state footprint, we operate in 52 counties.
And in those 52 counties, we have a market share -- we have a market in 14 of the 52 counties, we have a market share position that's either first, second, third, fourth or fifth in 14 of the counties.
So from a geography standpoint, our goal would be to look at acquisitions that would increase the number of counties where we have a significant market share.
They exist in all 5 of the states that we operate in.
And from a size standpoint, we would look at banks from $500 million to $6 billion or $7 billion.
About $400 million.
Not to date, no.
Well, thank you, everyone, for joining us today and we hope you'll be able to be with us when we discuss the second quarter results in July.
Thank you.
