What we've shared is that some portion of that organic volume for us is related to decisions we have made.
And some of those our strategic as far as we are focusing our energy on the higher end portion of our portfolio, and some of it is around customers.
And we also have shared in the back half, some of that becomes an easier comp for us.
And <UNK>, why don't you just share perspective on what we have talked about in the last three or four quarters, and then what will happen in the back half with our organic performance on volumes and revenue.
As I noted before, you see in that, despite some volume declines we have actually been able to grow revenue the last several quarters.
So first off, I want to mention that.
But yes, as <UNK> mentioned, we did have some of the volume, less profitable volume that we walked away from, and that's gotten behind us.
And then we did also cite some competitive losses.
Department of Defense was one of them, that was - well, it was a while back.
A lot of the implementation really happened over the last 12 months.
And then there was a large Blues plan in Philadelphia, Independence Blue Cross, where we were at par with our chief competitor and they negotiated a rate to exclude us.
So we did have that loss.
That again largely gets behind us as we go into the back half of the year.
So those two large losses combined with the volumes that we walked away from have made volume certainly a headwind over the last 12 months.
But those comps get a lot easier in the back half.
Just to underscore what <UNK> has said, we continue to share with you that our restored growth plan is both organic and through acquisition.
We feel very good that in the first half we grew greater than 3% growth in revenues.
That's a good number.
Some portion is organic and some portion through acquisitions.
As you know, in the second quarter we're lighter in acquisitions, and we provided you guidance in the back half of the year.
And that 3% growth has allowed us to grow earnings at the level that we have, and that's real earnings.
If you look at our operating income, it's up nicely versus last year.
We are proud of that.
And also we've gotten expansion, margin expansion.
So we think we've got the right formula here that we are working.
And we will continue that formula because at the end of the day, as you all know, the way we're going to get our value up for this Company is to continue to grow our earnings.
And we think we are on the right path to do that.
Thanks.
<UNK>, as to your first question, we have provided some visibility on our requisition volume over the years and also what tests we have seen annually.
And <UNK>, why don't you share those number we've shared in the past.
That outcome is not a coincidence.
It is a consequence of our strategy to steer a larger of portion of our portfolio to where we can make more money and where we can deliver value.
We, as one of our elements of our value that we deliver to all our clients including integrated delivery systems and hospitals, is we have one of the broadest test menu of anyone.
So as you know, we've got the most routine and the most advanced.
And we're bringing new science to the marketplace every day.
We are proud of that.
And we think it's will continue to be a differentiator.
The hospital market, the [referencer] market is a more concentrated marketplace.
There is no specific number because in addition to the test menu, it includes consideration about quality and service and reputation in the marketplace.
And yes, pricing is a consideration for that as well.
So you have to put all those elements together to eventually really understand what happens at the end of the day of us getting reference work and more hospital business versus others.
So there's no particular number that we can see.
About low single digits.
I think it's about 2%.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Okay.
I think we're up on time.
I just wanted to say once again that we believe we had a another good quarter.
We are making solid progress executing our strategy.
We appreciate your time here today.
And we hope you have a great day.
So take care, and see you in our travels.
