I'll let <UNK> hit that one.
We had a lot of expenses in the last year's third and fourth quarter because we were putting all of the legal structure in place and putting a new charter.
We had a shareholder vote to approve the transition, so there was a lot of legal and accounting fees that hit the back half of last year.
Those are done.
So yes, we will be benefiting, and that was part of the benefit that we received in Q3.
So, automated buying and next steps -- to put it in a little bit of perspective, there are some large advertisers, as I mentioned, that have dipped their toe into our automated buying platform.
Our live partner today is Vistar, and I think both on our end and on the customers' end, we are viewing these buys as sort of still in the beta phase.
But they are actual contracts, and dollars are changing hands, so that's a good sign.
The next step for us is to broaden the platform and engage with other automated vendors, and we have begun that process.
There are a couple of others that bring different capabilities to the table and can execute buys for our customers that more meet what certain customers want, in terms of measurability and real-time accountability for the buy.
So that's the next step.
We probably -- sometime in the next 60 days, 90 days, we will be announcing a couple of other partners on the automated platform side.
It's not specifically tied to automated executions.
It's more tied to the demand that our local general managers are seeing out there.
As I've said many times, we are a bottom-up organization.
And if our folks in the field see sufficient demand and believe they can sell additional digital units, then we will put them out there.
Sure.
On telecom, I really wouldn't expect 23% up.
I think that was an anomaly.
A little bit of the law of small numbers -- they are only 3% of our book.
And we did have a major buy, particularly in the Northeast, that drove that number.
But it's an encouraging sign.
We have fielded many questions on calls and at conferences as to whether there is a secular trend going on in telecom's use of outdoor.
And this should be encouraging to suggest that, like any other customer, they're going to come in and out, and at the end of the day, they view us as useful in their marketing campaigns.
Now, automotive is 6% of our book, and in Q3 was up 2%.
Sure.
We do anticipate a kick from political in Q3 and Q4 of next year.
Last year, in 2014, it was about $2 million a quarter, and it resulted in about 0.5% increase in our pro forma top line.
So, we didn't have that this year.
We should have it next year.
The phenomenon is, as you mentioned, we get direct political advertising, number one; and that shows up as a category.
But number two, typically we also get a little boost from our other categories who don't want to buy into all that clutter on other media.
So, we should look forward to a little bump for 2016 from political.
Sure.
What we're expecting organic for Q4, as I mentioned, is up 2% to 3%.
And right now paste and fold were trending towards the upper end of that.
On same board digital, as I mentioned, for Q3 we were down 2.6%.
But as we break it out monthly, each month got better from July on.
And in October, the same board digital performance was up 2.6%, which again, is very encouraging and gives us confidence going into next year that we can accretively deploy about 150 units.
Yes, so, in the summer months -- July, August, September -- we experience a little softness on the digital front.
Keep in mind, this is not the whole digital platform.
The whole digital platform is up high-single digits because we have added capacity during the year.
This is same board performance, and I'm encouraged that it's turned -- it's turned positive.
Great, and thank you, Katie, and thanks, everyone, for listening.
We will be at the Wells Fargo conference next Tuesday presenting.
And then we will talk again in 2016.
