On the Stream product, we didn't have to obtain any additional programming rights for this product.
Stream is a Title VI service that's delivered via the customer's IP-enabled gateway and it's covered under our existing contracts.
It's not an OTT service.
Concerning the voice number, we did focus a little bit more on double play this quarter, which also reduces churn, but it is always a blend of what the right offer is for the right customer base at any time.
And as <UNK> mentioned, our double-play customers are up to 69% and our triple play are also up to 37%.
So we are increasing both.
It's just a matter of balancing the offer mix.
<UNK>, I think I can take that, maybe finish the call, but feel free to jump in if I don't cover it.
I don't think that your facts are right on the NBC Comcast timing, but we are not going to go into more detail than that.
But I can say that one of the things that's worked really well is how well the Company is working together and that's one of the points that I'd want to end on, which is this combined portfolio of incredible companies -- the first half of the year and the second quarter, we couldn't be more pleased.
Really broad-based results and as we talked a lot about NBCUniversal, but also within Cable, Broadband, Video results, just really pleased with the start to the year.
I think our innovation in products, including Stream, but also being able to say that we've nearly doubled now the cash flow of NBCUniversal since the acquisition in 2009 is a terrific achievement and we believe we can lead innovation in the cable industry and do well by content companies and help both work together and that's what we are doing.
We are shifting our focus to, in addition to innovation, to real focus on the customer service, customer experience.
That's going to take years.
One of my comments to some of the questions that got asked would be this is going to take a long time to see some of the results, but we are going to stay the course.
And I think we feel that the transition with our chief financial officers has gone extremely well and we didn't miss a beat here and we are excited by <UNK>'s new venture and building value for our shareholders through creative opportunities, but that our priority is to continue to find profitable growth, return capital to shareholders and to keep the Company in a strong position in a sustainable way that has -- we've been doing since Ralph started the Company 51 years ago.
So thank you all for your support and we will see you in the third quarter.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Thanks, everyone, for joining us.
Brent, back to you.
