Thank you.
Sure.
So during the third fiscal quarter, we saw a little bit of, I'd say about almost two-thirds of our same-store sales growth was driven by check and the remaining portion by traffic.
What we know is that rain does adversely impact some of our traffic, particularly with some of our Spring and Summer promotions.
But again, overall it did not have that much of a significant piece.
We're very pleased to see overall the trend of seeing healthy traffic and check contribute to that same-store sales growth, and we've seen that since the third fiscal quarter of '14 as we move along.
And again, going back to we've seen same-store sales growth across each of our dayparts.
And that's a combination of making sure that we're coming up with new product news, that appeals across different dayparts, and promoting those across that 60- to 90-day time frame.
Well, there were promotions across the daypart, across the dayparts, drinks, food, ice cream.
So you get it in some elements, strictly breakfast focused or morning focused.
So they were across multiple dayparts through the quarter, not necessarily at any one point in time, but through the quarter, it did hit multiple dayparts.
And in fact, we saw nice same-store sales improvement across those dayparts.
Breakfast continues to be our biggest opportunity, just as a percentage of sales.
The sales are not proportional by daypart.
Breakfast is the lowest end.
Evening would be next.
But nice growth across the dayparts on the quarter.
We really won't.
You won't see the impact of those until we start FY16, because we're at the end of this fiscal year.
No.
(Laughter)
That would stand to reason, Bob.
I think the factors that we look at and what you'll notice is last fiscal year and this fiscal year, we have invested some of our capital in doing some partnerships with our operators, so build to suit models, and we've made a couple of acquisitions.
So while on a normalized basis, our capital expenditures are anticipated to go down versus this year, there are opportunities that come up.
And if we think that's a good return on our investment, then we're willing to use it for that purpose.
But again, we'll provide more information for our outlook in FY16 in September and October.
Okay.
Thank you.
I appreciate that.
We appreciate each of your participation today.
We apologize early on for some of the logistical difficulties.
We'll work out those bugs next time.
We continue to be very optimistic about our business, the Spring quarter, in spite of some weather challenges, et cetera, a very strong quarter.
Operators, I think, across our system, whether Company or franchise, very optimistic about the business, reinvesting very handsomely.
So we're very optimistic about the near term and long term future of our business, and we'll look forward to talking to you all about that along the way.
Best of luck and thanks for being with us today.
