You're welcome.
<UNK>, I'll offer you what we do share publicly from a contrast penetration rate data point.
Approximately two quarters ago, we stopped sharing specific contrast penetration numbers.
And the reason I offer then which is true and remains valid is that because we are reliant on a single source for those data and because we're well aware that it's survey data, I was uncomfortable with sharing specific numbers rather than sharing trends.
And as I alluded to earlier in the call, perhaps I wasn't specific enough, what we saw in the second quarter is that at two levels, which is the total volume of echocardiography exams being performed in the marketplace, as well as the penetration of contrast in that market.
Second quarter delivered as forecasted, which in both cases meant that we saw improvements or growth in those two indices.
The other two drivers in the market are market share and price.
We do not offer specific market share percentages, but as I also alluded to in my comments, we retain and remain market share leader in this marketplace which we're very proud of and we think that a lot of our commercial efforts warrant.
Price is not something that we speak to relative to our product.
I'm not going to agree that the market will be supply constrained.
In fact I think that we worked very diligently over the last several years to ensure that there's a smooth transition to our inbound supply when NRU goes offline.
And that coming date has been well-known to us for over two years now.
So we're well-prepared for that.
Our contracting already exists for years past that.
So there will be no change in our pricing dynamic on an inbound perspective when NRU shuts down.
On an outbound perspective, we're also highly contracted already out through at least 2017 with our major radiopharmacy customers.
So two separate questions I'm hearing there.
On the sub-analysis that you're absolutely right.
At ACC, we presented data that looked at our 301 trial and looked specifically at the subgroups of females and patients who met the criteria for obesity.
And what we demonstrated very convincingly is that the value principle is even more proven when you look at those subsets which by the way are two of the subsets, or two of the subgroups, that are most challenging to image and therefore where the value really demonstrates itself.
As I mentioned, we have advanced our discussion for a commercial partner for a commercial and development partner, I have nothing else I can add to that at this time.
So I will continue to say, stay tuned.
I have not offered a launch date, <UNK>.
And honestly, I'm not prepared to do so on this call either.
I'll just say thank you everyone for joining today and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
