Well, I cannot give you an exact rate, but I can tell you that the majority of new wins are the result of health and wellness solutions.
We have fantastic proprietary tools, which help [taste] calorie-reduced beverages taste better and we constantly make progress.
It's not like we have a few molecules and we only deploy them and we rely on the success of a few of them.
Over the last few months and quarters, the teams have made significant progress to come up with additional new solutions and frankly, we feel really excited of, first of all, the opportunities which we have; second, also on the success rate; and third, on partnering much closer with our customers together.
It is purely external sales and here it is very much targeted towards one specific segment of the market.
So we have some visibility into it and what we decided is not to participate in some lower margin business.
And as you know, we have been rationalizing both the portfolio and our footprint ingredients, especially in North America.
You remember that we had closed our manufacturing end of August last year because we knew that we would be facing some pressure.
So it was a decision for us not to participate in some specific contracts.
And <UNK>, from a definitional standpoint, it's sales in the US market; it's not exports from the US market.
For the year, you will see some pressure in North America for ingredients and then that will be a new base for the future.
Fourth quarter, <UNK>.
Yes, that's a great way to think about it.
<UNK>, good question.
We certainly look what can we do to fund the journey internally so that we will reallocate some of our resources towards our new programs and that's what we are doing.
Secondly, we certainly look at let's say our footprint and we already have, I would say, a pretty good natural hedge, but we have to look into it whether we can do some of these programs in areas where we have at the moment a euro exposure like in Europe.
And as you well know, we have brought about one (inaudible) employee base in Europe anyway, so that is certainly in the cards to look into it how we do it in the most efficient and effective way for us.
So these are the things we are looking into.
I think it was an easier comp.
If you look at the growth of 10% last year in Q1, you know very well that the market did not grow 10% and that growth really was primarily driven by new wins, but also by a customer prebuilding inventory before the implementation of SAP, something that reversed itself over the course of 2014.
So factoring that comparison and looking at the business over a two-year period, performance in Q1 2015 actually accelerated on a two-year average.
As such, we will expect our performance to return to growth going forward.
Yes, <UNK>, we are always looking at -- I think the levers that we can pull are looking at the spend and trying to be focused in terms of where that spend occurs and make sure it is focused on driving the business, whether it is on the R&D innovation side or on the commercial side to drive and accelerate the growth.
From a productivity standpoint, we look at opportunities day to day in our manufacturing operations, whether it is through capital investments or process improvement, to try to gain some leverage and that is inherent in our model.
And so I think those efforts will continue.
We may have some pressure near term when you combine currency in some of these new investments, but long term I think the model still works.
Well, we are flat year-over-year as it is in the first quarter.
So I think we have always said, look, we are not going to expect to have the kind of margin expansion that we had in prior years.
That is not possible.
I think we're going to be challenged by some of the mix impacts on the fragrance business.
But I think there are some opportunities that we'll look at, but there is some challenges from a timing standpoint.
Okay then.
Let me conclude the call.
So we are pretty pleased with our first-quarter performance, very robust in terms of 6%, which is certainly outperforming the market, which we expect 3% growth.
We have given you our outlook for the rest of the year, so we expect that in currency-neutral terms we will stick to our guidance and we certainly have an opportunity June 2 to update you on our let's say five-year strategy for 2020.
Thank you very much for participating and I hope I see many of you in New York here June 2.
Thank you and goodbye.
