I will take each in turn.
On all three, yes, there are innovation.
Importantly innovations coming in FY17.
Some of them they have not been announced, so I will not get into any specifics.
Diapers, we know we've got behind in diapers and it shows up and it's one of the most acute categories in terms of share loss.
Period.
The category is very -- understands it and the category as we focused on winning in China.
We six, nine months ago made a choice that we were going to win in China and allocated the resources and the capital to ensure that we had the appropriate product innovation coming.
It's not yet publicly announced when some of these major innovations are coming, but on both diapers and pants we're very committed to win.
An encouraging sign to me about the future in China is to look at what we've been able to do recently in Japan.
Where in Japan you're seeing is now taking share leadership, and frankly we're losing to primarily Japanese competitors have done extremely well in China, as well as KC.
And the innovation that we have coming over the next fiscal year and beyond, we think will position us well.
On Olay, our first step was to get our portfolio cleaned up.
That's been done.
If you step back and look at the four core collections on Olay, we're starting to see a meaningful difference, which is to me a very positive sign and that's Total Effects, Regenerist, our whitening segment and ProX, on those we see back half doing better than second-half.
We still have to anniversary some of the discontinued SKUs.
And the second key innovation on Olay will be getting our counters right.
Our counters, and having been to China many times and previously lived in greater China, our counters have gotten quite tired and have not been upgraded recently so we've shut down the counters that are in stores that aren't productive, and we've made meaningful investments in upgrading the counters in the stores that we think have a basis to -- places where we have a basis to compete.
So counter innovation is coming, it's already happening, it is funded and showing up now.
And the innovations will be coming on primarily the four core collections and then some new innovations that we will be bringing in.
The last category is hair.
Hair is our largest category in China.
We have meaningful innovations coming on both the conditioner that are superior, and I mentioned earlier, it's already been launched in the US and launched in China.
It is superior performing.
We have hair innovation coming on many of our brands.
Pantene and Head & Shoulders, historically been stronger.
VS is actually growing share, and we've got innovation coming on with [Joyce] which has been the weakest of our brands in China.
So on each one of the brands there's focus.
We've also made the choice, funded and staffed on the ground resources to ensure we keep up with the pace of innovation required in the beauty segment, which to me is an important choice about winning in the future in China.
Thank you.
