So certainly being up 6.6% in the third gives us a lot of confidence as we lay in our plans for next year's digital deployment.
This year, we wanted to see how it played out.
We are going to come in at probably -- not counting the new Clear Channel boards, probably somewhere around 110-ish.
So a little lighter than our usual buildout.
I would anticipate that we will accelerate that going into 2017.
I do not have a number for you yet.
But all the trend lines indicating that we should be more aggressive next year than we were this year.
Traditionally, I've said that 30% of our market's total revenue's coming from digital seems to be about where it is shaking out.
We have some markets that are more than that.
And we have a number of markets that are below that.
If you look at our whole footprint, we are at about 20%.
So give or take $300 million on give or take $1.5 billion, this also tells me that we've got some running room.
But those are guesstimates.
We still have a lot to learn about digital.
I would point out that UK's experience in the UK, digital billing for out of home has surpassed 50%, which is quite a number.
But, anyway, that is where we are.
I think we still have runway even if it tops out at 30%, we are 20% so we have got lots of running room and the platform is growing.
Sure.
I think it's a tad lighter on the new builds.
But the most pleasant surprise, <UNK>, has been what it costs us on the maintenance CapEx side as we retire early generation digitals.
Certainly the cost has come down.
But more importantly, the performance has been enhanced.
We are experiencing a much longer life from these units than we had anticipated when we first started deploying digital some 10, 12 years ago.
So it's a combination of costs coming down, useful life being prolonged, and really just a much more efficient unit that is coming in from all of our vendors, really, at a price point that has been pleasant to watch.
Yes.
Well thank you, Chantel, and thank you, all, for being on the call.
We will get together next year and put a wrap on 2016.
Thanks.
