<UNK>, thanks for the question.
And we generally would like to own more of everything that we have.
We like our investments significantly.
And so given the opportunity, we'd be looking at that, at all of our assets.
We can't comment specifically with regard to anything we might do at Rainy River or any other New Gold asset.
But I think you can understand that we look at some of these things as opportunities and not as negatives.
Absolutely.
You've got it right.
Good morning, <UNK>.
<UNK>, as you know, Bill <UNK> comes from a banking background, and we literally look for Bill to help us with our security aspects of our transactions.
Let me turn that question to Bill.
How are you.
Yes, so the obligations under the stream agreement are unsecured with respect to the Rainy River assets.
That ranks us pari passu with the banks and the notes with respect to those assets.
Once they are in production, there will be a collection account that is established, and our share of proceeds from gold and silver sales will go into that collection account and we'll have a first lien on that account.
No, we don't -- we're not like a project finance bank that would have a sort of failure to achieve completion by such and such a date.
That really has never been part of the contracts that we've executed.
There are no other financial covenants in that contract.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Good morning, <UNK>.
<UNK>, I think let's talk about the dividend first.
We always have said that we want to pay a growing, sustainable dividend.
We never have and I don't necessarily think we would do a special dividend of any sort.
So I think kind of steady expectations of what we've done in the past would be a good reflection of what we likely will do in the future.
We're very much interested in continuing to grow our business.
We have a nice piece of growth already in place between 2017, 2018, and 2019, with the likes of the assets we talked about.
Rainy River coming in in 2017, late 2017 now, Cortez Crossroads in 2018, and then Pyrite Leach at Penasquito in 2019.
There's growth that's already bought and paid for in the portfolio.
Nonetheless, we'd like to continue to add to that.
So that would be a priority for us.
Then also servicing our debt and moving into a net cash position is certainly a priority for us.
So I hope that kind of answers the potential use of cash flow.
But with regard to Ilovitza, we're continuing to evaluate that on a daily basis.
I look at it more as an option rather than a commitment.
And we'll just see how that project develops and if we decide to continue to support the project, we will certainly let you know what that issue is or how that unfolds.
But today, the status of the project hasn't changed much from our standpoint.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Well, operator, this is a very straightforward and solid quarter, so it doesn't surprise me there's not a tremendous amount of questions.
Very pleased how the Company performed and how the assets performed, and we look forward to continuing to update you as our Company progresses and continues to grow into the future.
Thank you very much for joining the call today.
