That's going to wrap up the analyst portion of the call, and I will now turn it over to <UNK> <UNK>, our Chief Communications Officer for the media portion.
<UNK>, we're not going to speculate on future pricing trends.
Right now we feel we've got a good product in the market and we'll see what happens.
I think we have to look at our entire service offering and ensure that we are supplying what the market wants to buy.
I think what we know is Delta has a very, very strong brand and much stronger than some of the ULCCs, and that people would prefer to fly with us than they would on some of the unknown non-brand names.
But in many cases we don't have similar configuration, mixes, product offerings, and I think that's where we're going to be looking.
You don't need to create an airline within airline, you just need to adjust to what people want to buy in the marketplace.
And the closer we can get to what our customers want to buy in every sector, the more successful we're going to be, and Transatlantic is no exception to the rule.
It includes all kinds of fare products, it includes cabins we don't have today, and I think that's the exercise we're going through is to see what do people really want to buy and what are they paying for it, and how do we capitalize on moving, not providing something that Delta wants to provide, but providing something customers want to buy.
Well <UNK>, it is a challenge but I don't want it to be blown out of proportion either.
We've had a very few single digit number of incidents occur.
We're certainly reminding our passengers of the requirements, we're educating our crews, we're putting some additional safety elements on board the cabin to help mitigate a smoke situation.
But it's not fundamentally different than challenges that we've had for some time.
We're aware of the concerns around lithium batteries, and we are very mindful of that, safety is always our most important concern.
The additional safety -- <UNK>'s here --
So what we've done is of course really the target training with our flight crews along with equipment.
There are some other modifications that we are adding with containment bags as an example, that with any device that did experience a lithium battery fire you can put it in a containment bag that would certainly contain any possible scenario.
But there's already equipment on board and has been that's capable with dealing with any of these situations.
<UNK>, I'm not going to speculate for Richard other than to say this was all consistent with the plan that we have talked to.
I mentioned earlier today that he's given myself as the new CEO and Frank Blake as the new lead Director about six months of transition to make certain everything on the succession was going well.
We do think everything is going well and he concluded it was his time to retire, so this was fully anticipated.
I was talking of pricing trends that we've seen this year.
Demand has been strong, but it's related to weak pricing.
We have reason to believe the State Department is making progress.
We're not going to get in front of the State Department by telling them what they need to do specifically, but freezing and/or eliminating fifths would be a great start.
I'm not going any further than that.
(Multiple speakers) Five flying.
Sorry, five flying.
