Yeah, so this is <UNK>.
We're not seeing any difference in our general trend.
You'll see some variation a little bit between in some of our segments relative to the leverage that we see, but in general we're not seeing a difference in the environment.
Thank you, <UNK>.
Good morning.
So we began that engagement in the fourth quarter as you had mentioned.
There is investment involved in it and there is certainly a ramp-up associated with that project.
So we did receive some even revenue in the fourth quarter associated with that and one would expect in a that's going to continue to ramp up through the course of the year.
But it doesn't reach what I would characterize as more of a steady state for some time.
Sure, <UNK>.
Let me start handling that and then <UNK> and <UNK> can chime in.
The market continues to be forming in this space for revenue cycle management outsourcing.
Whether it be module work or large comprehensive.
So it's a robust environment.
The pressure's on hospitals remain the same, physician groups remain the same so we see a good demand environment.
The experience we're having implementing at UAB is certainly going to be a nice badge for us.
And currently implementation is going as planned.
We're hitting our marks.
We've got a really good relationship with the client.
We've on-boarded the people that we have really effectively and no doubt other people in the industry are watching and are interacting with UAB to evaluate how things are going.
So we see a good robust environment for other large partners in the future but also on the modular side, our consulting business and our outsourcing business have really begun working much, much more effectively together in identifying opportunities.
There's system conversions in-- in situations where there's M&A where we're already doing consulting work.
There are a number of triggers on the consulting side that are going to continue to feed that business.
We remain quite optimistic about where that business is going to go.
Yeah, I think it's a combination, <UNK>, of things that we've incorporated into our planning for 2017.
And there's a number of factors that are being considered in the universe of financial services regulations today.
We have to be careful when people talk about the rollback of Dodd-Frank thus far, it really isn't that.
It's just a definition of six core principles that direct secretary treasury and the heads of all the regulatory bodies to periodically review.
So I think there's a feeling that, things--continue forward as planned right now and even if there is this periodic review against the core principles, that in our view the opportunity remains core compliance will still be a major factor for all of the financial institutions.
We do expect, perhaps some diminished purview of the (inaudible) which could impact our consumer finance services on the one hand.
On the other hand we hear and see that state AGs and regulators would pick up the mantle, if you will, and have a greater focus on those consumer finance regulations.
So all of that was considered and thought of as we contemplated our guidance for 2017 and as you said in the beginning it's quite consistent with what we said in the fourth quarter of 2016.
Yeah, so it's <UNK> here.
So we expect it to moderate slightly versus what we've had in the past.
It's just the relative pace of the acquisitions and,Ecofys was from a cost perspective, I would characterize as modest.
Thank you, <UNK>.
Potentially, yeah.
I mean potentially.
But I think with not just for Navigant but so many organizations in the US right now relative to the current administration's view on a number of different policies, it's a wait-and-see approach.
We as an organization work very hard to remain nimble and be able to respond and adapt with all of our professionals to what we see emerging.
We feel, this is why I said there's kind of a very deliberate and measured optimism to our year because this kind of change plays into our sweet spot as an organization.
But we don't have a crystal ball and aren't going to be certain on that.
So, potentially, you know, 50 masters sometimes is more complicated than one.
No impact to our business in the fourth quarter, no expected impact going forward.
We have a payer practice that focusing on exchanges in the States.
It's not necessarily focused on commercial.
So really not much of an impact to us at all.
Our business as a whole across the system is not significantly sensitive to M&A falling.
So while we benefit in both environments, there are certainly parts of our business benefit from a spike in M&A.
There are other parts of our business that benefit from, it being a more conservative environment around that.
So we haven't seen anything and are not factoring it in a significant way going forward
Yeah, so our cost of service did go up a bit.
The largest factor was Ecofys so we brought in a new organization and incorporating those individuals into our cost of service.
I would just say that that's our standard in a realignment of resources to areas where we have greater demand, where we're aggressively hiring and developing areas where we're experiencing, less demand and that it is time to rebalance.
We've made a real commitment to raising the overall productivity of our senior people, our managing directors and directors and I think what you're seeing is just something that's consistent with our ongoing practice of striving for more productivity in those ranks.
I don't think there's anything systemic to really look at.
Thank you, <UNK>
I think that it for our Q and A so we appreciate everybody's participation in our call today and look forward to talking to you again in the next quarter.
Thank you.
