Well, we always feel that the better economy, the better off we are but the reality is our onboard spend increases is across the board.
So it's clearly not only tied to consumer response from economic improvements because it's everywhere.
So we know that it has been, in part, due to the stimulation of the brands working together, sharing ideas, building on each other's idea, sharing best practices.
For example, the one example I gave, the Wi-Fi at Sea is a comprehensive conversation about how do we enhance conductivity onboard the ships for both our guests and our crew.
And coming out of that, a number of things we've done collectively and some individually by brands based on the collective sharing and discussion.
And ultimately, it's led to a nice uptick in both guest satisfaction scores with conductivity and actually and also in terms of onboard revenue.
So we would see far more of the benefit coming from focused actions and efforts on the part of our outstanding employees that have revenue management responsibilities, onboard revenue responsibilities and their working together and sharing best practices.
Well, obviously, we want to drive it as much as we can.
And it's not so much change in consumer behavior as much as us listening to our guests and giving them more of what they want.
And if you give them what they want, they'll buy it.
So yes, we feel that we are going to work it and continue to work it.
We think there's additional growth prospects but at this point in time, we think the prudent thing to do is the guidance that we gave.
One more question.
Well, in terms of revenue management and dynamic pricing and all of that, that is an ongoing effort.
It should yield results for some years to come.
We want to accelerate the learnings we have and accelerate the adoption of those across the brands.
It's very significant for us and we are at roughly $80 million passenger cruise days a year so $1 a day across our fleet is $80 million and so $10 a day is $800 million.
So revenue management is absolutely a prime area of focus; it's the biggest driver we have and small tweaks add up to real dollars.
So there, whether it's the actual tools that we use, the management systems that allow us to do more inquiry and change prices, at smaller increments faster and so on and so forth, or whether it's the actual presentation and psychology and packaging of pricing, all of that, all of those are areas that we continue to mind.
We've got a clear line of sight from the study on about 21 different areas to explore.
We're doing that, luckily, with nine brands.
We can do a lot of that simultaneously as opposed -- two in this brand, two in that brand, get the learning and share it more rapidly.
We have a guru in place, a coach that's there to monitor process and encourage the brands and to make certain that the communication takes place across the brands.
And it's going very well.
So we have an expectation that, no pun intended, it will yield results for several years to come.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Thank you all very much.
I really appreciate your interest and we are happy to deliver a good quarter and we're looking forward to building on that momentum.
Thank you very much.
