Yes <UNK>.
That's one of the reasons we moved them there out of Southeast Asia.
We were seeing a lot of pressure in the market in Southeast Asia, particularly with Petrobras forcing operators to use their rigs that are under contract first and then use local rigs.
So we made a business decision to move those rigs into the Middle East.
We believe that from that position we're seeing a lot of demand coming there for jack-ups in the UAE and Qatar -- Saudi Aramco still up in the air where they're going to shake out with their fleet.
But they have about eight jack-ups rolling over this year and they are always looking to high-grade their fleet.
So we've been in discussions with them on those rigs.
As I mentioned earlier, demand in <UNK> Africa, those rigs are perfect to work in that region of the world and certainly in South America and Mexico.
Sure.
We've had numerous discussions with Repsol regarding blend and extend of the Renaissance.
It is on standby right now in the US Gulf of Mexico.
They're looking at projects in different areas of the world themselves to keep the rig working.
We have talked to them about doing blend and extend, utilizing jack-ups, and their acquisition of Talisman in the North Sea with us having the Stavanger and the Norway idle.
Those are options that are on the table.
We have met with them both in Madrid and Houston.
<UNK> and I were just there a few weeks ago, and the status is right now they are looking at where they think they can respond, but until that point -- we've given them numerous scenarios to try to work something out, but so far it's -- the ball's in their court as to where they're going to head with that.
If there was enough demand certainly, short-term, that we would warrant moving it, of course, absolutely we would.
But we're looking at a potential in the US Gulf of Mexico with an operator that's got up to a year's worth of work.
We're also looking at Mexico as I mentioned earlier, and to mobilize the rig to <UNK> Africa from the US Gulf is going to be about the same as from the Middle East.
So we think it's in a good spot, we're just trying to -- we are hopeful that some of these jobs would have materialized earlier.
Unfortunately some of them have been pushed back a little bit, but that's the current plan for the rig right now.
Thank you.
All right.
We'd like to thank everyone for your interest in Rowan and joining us on today's call.
If you have any additional questions, Carrie Prati and I will be available to take your calls.
We look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
<UNK>, thank you for coordinating the call, and good day everyone.
