Thank you.
Yes, it's going to go into engineered materials, more specifically the GLS business.
We are acquiring certain technologies.
We are acquiring certain assets, but no plants.
The ultimate goal and objective is to ultimately transition manufacturing into one of our existing PolyOne facilities.
That's the easiest way to think about that, <UNK>.
I think certainly once we have those products up and running on our lines that there is some synergy benefit.
When you consider what that is on a multiple basis, that probably takes a couple of turns off of it.
It's candidly a small part of the deal.
I really look more at the commercial aspects and growing the business.
We will invest in additional resources to help support that, which is offsetting some of that benefit.
I wouldn't draw a significant conclusion or benefit from the consolidation itself.
Yes.
I think in terms of the tax rate question, we'll probably average about 32%, which is in line with how we closed out 2015.
In terms of the interest costs with our refinancing that we've done, I would expect that our interest costs year over year would be down $5 million to $6 million.
That's a substantial savings from the outstanding work we did on the refinancing.
Certainly, the share count, as we have always been, we will look for opportunities in the market to repurchase our stock; but I'm not ready to announce what that is.
Again, we ended the year with about 86 million shares outstanding.
Sure, thanks, <UNK>.
We have time for one more question.
Hi, <UNK>.
The short answer to that is that I don't see any additional customers making that same decisions.
In terms of the types of products and services we are offering, again they're more smaller niche applications that are getting closer and closer to what we do well with color and EM.
I don't see that as a risk in the future, to answer your question.
Look, with respect to what I view as the future or forecast for DSS, I've been pretty clear on what I think the earnings impact is going to look like in 2016.
That really incorporates everything I know today.
Yes, I think this year we spent about $90 million.
That's a good -- between $85 million and $90 million is a good proxy for 2016.
Thank you.
I just want to say thanks for all of our investors and analysts who joined us on the call today, and your continued interest in PolyOne.
We look forward to speaking with you again at the conclusion of our first-quarter results.
