Thanks, <UNK>.
That demonstration project that we mentioned will not complete during this public comment period.
I think that study be a little longer study.
So that is going to play out over the coming months.
So it is not going to add to the 36 publications that we already have during that timeframe.
From a growth perspective, I think one of the things that was important for us to look at is what did the trends look like after we were able to discuss the data from AMPLE.
And as we mentioned, we did in fact see when you saw December and January data compared to October November data, you actually saw a nice uptick in demand that was demonstrative of the impact that our sales teams were having.
So I think it's the fact that the sales force realignment has been completed.
It is the fact that we've got really good messaging out there and a talented team that is out there being able to give physicians continued confidence.
And it's looking at the trends that we have seen in the last couple of months.
I think those things together have us confident that we are going to return to sequential growth in the second half.
Thanks, <UNK>.
As you know having covering the industry for a while, predicting these things is difficult.
What I can say is that the health economic data that we discussed is recent data.
And the fact that we have been able to generate that data in United Healthcare's database as well as Humana and Anthem's databases -- and those analyses are either done at this point or very close to that -- that speaks loudly to the insurance carriers because these are their own members, and we can demonstrate cost savings in their own plans.
And so we think that will be very impactful, and that data is either available now or will be available quite shortly.
And so obviously you can imagine we are aggressively having those discussions about not only the utility of the debt but the health economic impact in their own members.
And that will continue to be a high priority for us.
This concludes our earnings call.
A replay will be available via webcast on our website site for one week.
Thank you again for joining us this afternoon.
