Yes, thank you, <UNK>.
Yes, I apologize for the confusion.
I was really referencing the increase in the global components business.
I was not expecting any type of gross margin change.
In fact, what I was really referencing was our expense program that we talked about last year, we're making good progress.
I expect this, we'll be at full run rate, as we enter the third quarter, and we'll start to see the benefits of that.
So that's what I really was referring to around margin expansion.
With that also, keep in mind, that the leverage we get in the business should also drive margin expansion, as we've had a couple three quarters in a row, now where our global components business has outgrown the market.
Well, if we did some pro forma calculations on Q1, we'd be right there.
So the answer from me would be that, yes, we'll be closing the gap, and we expect to get there.
What's been interesting, as if to maybe to add onto <UNK>, is that the encouragement I think, around this for us is that we've seen North America grow again.
We went through period of time, that the North American market didn't grow, and we've been able to offset that now and if we can get North America and Europe to grow, it sort of offsets some of the pressures that Asia puts on us.
And you can imagine a 10% swing by any of those regions over a quarter, does have an impact on your mix.
And what's we do watch.
But the fact that we're seeing the backlogs in North America up, that we're seeing our design wins in North America up, that we're seeing our bookings up in North America.
I think we have a pretty good confidence that this will play out.
What we won't do, and what you've obviously seen by the performance this quarter, is we're not going to cut future investments around the cloud, or digital, or software, or IoT to achieve that 5%.
We fully expect to do that through growth, and the external market.
So I just want to make -- just reassure you, that while it would be easy to cut out any or one of those programs, and be above the 5% level, that's not what we're going to do here.
Thanks for the question, too, <UNK>.
The reality is that we have a very short window, where we can do open market buying, and then we have to put in a 10b5.
To go back to the timing of our fourth quarter earnings release, we were debating the target setting for the 10b5 in mid to late February.
You may recall, during at that point in time, there was a lot of volatility in the stock market, as many investors who were asking us about the threat of a potential recession in the United States.
So we probably were a bit more cautious, because of the economic backdrop, what people were asking us and the volatility, and we put the10b5 plan in place, as the window closed in late February.
I would say sentiment obviously changed from an investor point of view and I think some of it, in the short term, economic data tightened up in the month of March.
So it was more around, trying to conform to the requirements of a window, and putting our best foot forward around the volatility, and that's the only reason why.
I would fully expect us to be active in the buyback program, as you go throughout the rest of this year.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Sure, <UNK>.
So the two acquisitions we did were modest, compared to Arrow Electronics Inc.
The run rate for those acquisitions is probably about $50 million for Q2, and a nominal impact, and maybe $0.01 or so on earnings per share.
I think the run rate question really is that we'll continue to close the gap on the target that we've set.
And we'll see that uplift in the second half of the year.
And yes, for sure we'll see uplift, year over year on our operating margins, Or that's our expectations anyway, as we go forward.
Sorry, <UNK>.
I wasn't clear enough.
That would be the impact on Q2.
Thanks.
