I think, given the breadth of the task orders and volume, most go through a fairly logical transition phase.
Recompetes obviously are just are sustained, so there's very little variance to the revenue stream, and then the puts and takes on the awards I think move forward.
So I think you'll see very consistent revenue run rates.
We've still got the modest variability on supply chain.
But I think overall, we're still confident in those long-term targets, given the recent awards and expectations on conversion of probably that $16 billion on a recurring basis.
So we'll keep track of that, but expect it would be a very similar, with some modest upside.
Thanks, Mike.
Thank you.
Hi, John.
Sure.
On the recompete side, with POLCHEM, it's a defense logistics agency contract, it's a recompete.
We expect that to be awarded perhaps in Q4 time frame and fairly soon.
We don't expect it to have a material impact in FY17 results, as that plays out.
But are confident we submitted a very competitive proposal, and we'll see how that goes.
So we'll report on that based on its outcome, but no impact until really 2017.
And with the NASA EAST award, in the past we've really retired a lot of the recompete challenges this year.
And in reference to AMCOM, as we've talked about, the Army is pursuing a broader acquisition strategy, and converting some of the AMCOM task orders in part to the OASIS, just a OASIS vehicle.
We've been successful in tracking two of those transitions from AMCOM to OASIS, and we're working with the customer, and attending (inaudible) and the like, to follow their subsequent acquisition process and conversion.
That will still play out probably over the next year, as they work to divide up the task order volume.
There's a wide number of task orders under the AMCOM BPA.
We can sustain a lot of our revenue through that, so not all of it is in the migration mode.
But some of the larger ones that we've talked about, are being realigned and with some a movement to OASIS.
So fairly steady, revenue streams on AMCOM very solid, and we're just working through the acquisition process to further secure that work under the different vehicle.
And that will take probably a year to sort through.
Let me address the POLCHEM, and probably I'll restate that second part.
POLCHEM, it runs in that $125 million range.
It's in that ballpark, just north of $100 million.
The volume obviously fluctuates, but on an annual basis it tends to deliver that much material volume, just to give you a ballpark.
I'm sorry, what was the second part of the question, <UNK>.
Yes, very similar process as the government, both on the mission side as well as acquisition offices, redefine the scope.
So it's a fairly consistent process in AMCOM, and it's actually very consistent with our other customers, as they look to recompete certain work.
Sometimes the statements of work are very similar.
In this case, they're electing to realign if you will, repackage, mission areas slightly differently, and then put those out as individual task orders under OASIS, as opposed to operating under sub components with the large task order that we've been operating under.
So a very consistent process, it's one that we've seen before, that they've utilized.
It's really just a different set of scope that we're very familiar with.
