I don't know about the fourth quarter.
Fourth quarter was a big delivery but it certainly should change for the first quarter.
I don't imagine we can comp the Star Wars fourth quarter shipments for the kids business.
Right now I would expect to make money.
Well, yes, because there's bill sell-ins from the year before and year after.
They also buy a little closer for their existing and they're learning the business better.
But I define low as I did before, 10 to 30.
You're talking about just distributors.
Chile we've had for almost ten years.
Yes.
We will be lapping in the second half.
Korea should be coming on.
And we are still looking for big growth from China and India.
So the distributors become a smaller piece of it and they will be concentrated in about four or five bigger distributors that are left.
That would be sort of Indonesia and Australia and the Middle East.
And then whatever we start to build in Africa through South Africa and moving on.
And concentrated depending on what nose areas are like from a macro picture and a retail picture.
We're moving more and more into the certainly the biggest piece is joint ventures and subsidiaries.
Yes.
It\
I would say that's correct if you lost them modestly.
Absolutely.
I'm still here.
I didn't hear you say anything else.
No, I said absolutely.
I hope you heard that.
And anticipated.
Okay.
It's different in some different countries but yes, it's shifting in a lot of places around the world.
It depends where.
Parts of Europe are coincidental.
Parts are after.
Parts of southeast Asia are, no one's exactly the same time but a little slower and certainly the slowest, the biggest lag would be in South America.
They've seen pieces of it.
Like we said in the comments, they will be here next month in mass for the big sales conference.
The pieces they've seen and what they have already been shown, they do like and I have no doubt that they'll like the stuff when they get here and see it.
Thanks.
I don't know.
I'm not really sure yet.
I don't really want to come out with any numbers.
But it you look at the G&A number last year, it went down from third quarter to fourth quarter in real dollar terms.
And unless there's significant growth, it usually does drop some from third quarter to fourth quarter.
And a lot of that is volume based.
I think we're all set here.
We look forward to seeing everybody in New York if you have an opportunity, there is a lot of new product.
We've been moving very, very well.
You should get an idea of how it's perceived and really what it is.
So, if you get the opportunity, we would love to host everybody, within reason certainly, at FFANY in New York in December.
Thanks again, and we'll sign off from here.
