Sure.
The growth in paid downloads follows the growth of the e-commerce business.
So it tracks pretty well to that.
As far as the strategy, let's go back a few years.
So when we went public our strategy was at the time we were a Company that was just over $100 million of revenue and we were building what was at the time a relatively new enterprise business.
We were expanding our video product and we were building the business internationally.
We took that three-pronged strategy now, almost five years later, and did a really good job with that.
The business is nearly $500 million in revenue, nearly $100 million of EBITDA.
And today what we are focused on is taking our transactional marketplace and turning it into an end-to-end platform.
So, what we did in 2015 and 2016 is build -- rebuild our entire tech platform in order to do that, in order to take the Company from being a transactional marketplace to having many more touch points with the customer over their entire creative lifecycle for using imagery, deploying imagery, creating imagery and measuring imagery.
We have a lot of work left to do and we are going to continue to build on top of the platform.
This is not something that we do for the next quarter, for the next year -- this is a multi-year strategy and it expands our addressable market pretty significantly.
If you think of stock imagery as a $5 billion to $10 billion addressable market, you take the total workflow market, and that is many tens of billions of dollars of addressable market.
So, we think we have a great platform; we have a great model.
We have great starting point, which is selling over five images per second to businesses all around the world, and we are going to work off of that starting point.
To start on Editor, Editor since the beginning of our workflow product and we plan to build that out further.
We are not disclosing any specific metrics on Editor, but we have said that people that use Editor do buy more photos from us and it increases engagement.
And we will continue to try to increase engagement.
On the lower-priced subscriptions, we are just moving to where the market is.
We saw -- we see other segments of customers that are willing to buy from us on lower volume packages.
And we are going to offer those lower volume packages to them when it makes sense.
It is hard to just break out micro stock and, in fact, micro stock has had several definitions over the years.
I can tell you that businesses of all sizes have not decreased their need for imagery.
Every business needs imagery to sell their product or service and we are increasingly becoming the place that people go to get those images.
We will also continuously become more of a place that people go to work on those images and we will be more in the workflow of all of these businesses.
Look, today we have 1.7 million customers, those are mostly businesses.
There are tens and tens of millions of customers out there that could be buying our product and our goal is to get them.
We plan to plug into every single place that a person would need an image.
We will do this with our API; we will do it actively where we partner with a company and will allow other companies to integrate with our API directly.
You mentioned one, Adobe, that is just one of our connectors; we plan to be everywhere a business needs an image.
Well, I will start.
If you look at -- 2016 was a year of re-platforming a lot of the Company, a lot of the way that we work on our products, a lot of the way that we develop our products and a lot of the code that our products get launched onto.
2017 is going to be the year that we build on that technological platform and we continue to innovate on behalf of the customer.
We are not going to give much detail about our products.
We are the only public company in this space and we are going to continue to innovate and deliver for the customer every day like we do.
Maybe I will start on video.
Video is an important part of our offering.
Video is growing faster than the Company is growing, both on the customer and on the contributor side.
Video is still a complicated thing to use.
And as we get better with our workflow efforts we plan to make video easier and easier to use for customers.
Today it is very difficult and we have proven with Editor that we can make simple transforms of imagery a lot easier for the customer and we plan to do that with video as well.
