Good morning, <UNK>.
Well, you know, if you look at lead times on, I believe Cold Rolled are up to nine weeks right now.
So it's certainly tight out there.
And we do have some flexibility.
But, again, as I said, we need to see a more sustainable volume demand coming into the market before we would restart it.
But we would do it if that was the case.
No question.
Good morning, <UNK>.
The analysis is very broad.
We've always said that we would prepare to do it at the time that it's convenient for us.
Not anybody else's input would make a difference in the moment in which we will pull that trigger.
But we're ready to do it at the right moment.
We always look at the global demand, <UNK>.
But we need to put the fudge factor of the interface with imports in terms of the trade cases.
And they will certainly play a meaningful role in how much the overall global demand and the movement of material around the world would impact us as the domestic market continues to evolve.
Demand in many of the sectors here, as you know, has not been bad.
You look at automotive, the white lines, they've been fairly steady and good.
Some of the other ones are not.
Like you go to mining, for example, and the energy business in general, it's been fairly weak.
So those domestic conditions both here and in Europe are observed with attention.
But we do look at what's happening in the outer world and what are the thresholds based on the curtains that we're trying to put in place to make sure that the fair trade prevails for the most part.
We would if that was the right decision to make.
And don't misunderstand it.
We don't disagree with you.
If you look at where the market was just a couple of months ago to where it is right now, it certainly has changed and then we are confident of it.
Thank you.
Good morning, Chuck.
Thanks, Chuck.
Good morning, <UNK>.
Well, actually, <UNK>, we're very happy and excited with everything that's happening in automotive.
We have several new alternatives that have been given to the OEMs.
I mean, if you look at most of the OEMs that we're working with, the solutions that they are going for are steel solutions.
Many of them are our solutions.
Our engagement has gone beyond just a material.
It's going very heavily towards what we can do with the design engineers of the OEMs in order to come up with designs that are much more prone to receive some of the materials that we're offering, as well as current materials.
So we are very comfortable with what is taking place in that realm for us.
I don't think so.
The capability that we had was mostly technical and intellectual capability, because we've gone beyond the normal board of relationships where you're just talking about a material.
You're talking now about a solution, and there are plenty of contributions that we're making as the design engineers go about crafting the ultimate shapes and structures of the new vehicle.
And our input has been essential for them to really get to the best, safest, lightest and more economical solution that they're looking for.
I think for the most part, they've been concluded.
There are still some that are in the last phase of conclusion.
It shouldn't take very long for that to be done in full.
Good morning.
Well, that project is solely dependent upon the turnaround on the energy demand.
And right now, it's still very low.
We are concluding the warehousing of all of the equipment.
Everything has finally arrived.
It's all taken care of.
We can certainly kick it back on whenever the moment is right.
And we just need to see what happens with that market.
Right now, we're really looking into addressing the very small demand that we're seeing out of the operations and adequating it to make sure that we address cash flows to the best of our ability here.
I think it would probably require between $50 million and $100 million to finish it off.
And we certainly could conclude it between six months and a year, depending on what the conditions are at the time that we reignite it.
Hi, <UNK>.
We are evaluating all options.
We wouldn't take any off the table.
But we're not going to get any more specific than that at this point.
But we know what all of our options are, and that's certainly one of them.
But we know what the full spectrum is.
But beyond that, I don't think we have anything additional to add to that.
Well, the feedback is very good.
I don't think we've ever been as transparent and engaged with them when we analyze the overall of the value chain for them.
And that includes not just the delivery performance, but the way in which we do some forecasting which impacts how we do sales and operations planning.
So I think the progress is real.
And the candidness and the feedback feed into the way in which we do the planning for improvement over here.
So it's certainly a lot better than I've ever seen.
I mean, historically, you know, it depends on the market situation.
If there is a real opportunity for investment, you go a little harder at it.
But on average, 30%, 35% has been the pretty good place to be.
Yes, we're comfortable with the number.
And the big expense was, as I mentioned before, was the conclusion on the position of all of the parts for the EAF.
And, <UNK>, you have another piece of --
Direct steel.
No.
Sure.
Yes.
Well, you know, the Canadian process continues to flow as expected.
The market over there is going to be susceptible at the same levels of injuries that you've seen over here.
And it's -- we don't have a direct interest at this point in that particular market.
We have enough going on between Europe and here.
We have plenty of opportunities.
And that's what we're really mainly focused -- focusing on.
Yes.
I just -- before we sign off, I want to acknowledge and thank our employees one more time.
I know it's been hard for them to see the positives because they've been confronted by significant challenge after significant challenge.
However, we certainly would not be where we are today seeing the light at the end of the tunnel without them doing what they've been doing.
Very grateful for that and proud of it.
So thanks, everyone.
