Thank you, <UNK>.
Good morning, everyone.
It was during the fourth quarter of 2014 and first quarter of 2015 that we accelerated our expansion which does make the Q1-Q1 comparisons the most difficult of the year but we continued to grow the top line around the targeted range, with revenues for the quarter up over 8% to $385 million.
Housekeeping & Laundry grew at 5%.
Dining & Nutrition was up 14% for the quarter.
Earnings from operations increased 20% in Q1 to over $29 million.
Both revenues and earnings from ops were Company records.
Overall, the districts and regions have done a good job of opening the new business we added during the first quarter, not only in minimizing inefficiencies, but more importantly, developing strong working relationships with our new facility level customers.
As that new business matures, we would expect ongoing margin improvement as our focus shifts towards managing the departments and servicing the client base.
For the balance of 2016, we'll continue our selective expansion, controlling our growth rate to ensure that our managerial wherewithal, facility execution, and financial performance are in line with what we committed to our customers.
With that abbreviated overview, I will turn the call over to <UNK> for a more detailed discussion on the quarter.
Thanks <UNK>.
Good morning, everyone.
Net income for the quarter increased to $18.6 million, or $0.26 per share compared to $15.5 million and $0.22 per share in Q1 of 2015.
Both net income and earnings per share were Company records for the quarter.
Direct cost of services came in at 85.8%, so it continued to be under 86%.
Obviously, going forward, our goal continues to be to manage direct costs under 86%, moving our way on a consistent basis towards 85% direct costs of services.
SG&A was reported at 6.6% for the quarter, but after adjusting for $300,000 change in deferred comp investment accounts that are held for and by our management people, our actual SG&A was 6.7%.
We would expect our normalized SG&A to continue to be in that 7% range going forward with the ongoing opportunity to garner some modest efficiencies in SG&A.
Investment income for the quarter was reported at $200,000, but again, after adjusting for that $300,000 change in deferred comp, our actual investment income was about $0.5 million.
As we've previously discussed in last quarter's call, at the end of 2015 Congress did reauthorize and extend through 2019 the Worker Opportunity Tax Credit Program.
So our effective tax rate for the quarter was 37%.
And for the balance of 2016 we expect our effective tax rate to be in that 37% range, inclusive of that Worker Opportunity Tax Credit benefit.
We continue to manage the balance sheet conservatively and at the end of the quarter, had over $100 million of cash and marketable securities and a current ratio of 4 to 1.
The accounts receivable remain in good shape, below our targeted DSO of 60 days.
In conjunction with the release yesterday, the Board of Directors approved and increased the dividend to $0.1825 per share, split adjusted and payable on June 24.
The cash flow and the cash balances for the quarter more than support it with the dividend tax rate in place for the foreseeable future.
The cash dividend program continues to be the most tax-efficient way to get the value and free cash flow back to the shareholders.
This will be our 52nd consecutive cash dividend payment since the program was instituted in 2003 and it's now the 51st conservative quarter that we have increased the dividend payment over the previous quarter.
That's a 13-year period now that includes four three-for-two stock splits.
So with those opening remarks, we would now like to now open up the call for questions.
Good morning, <UNK>.
I think it will happen more evenly over the balance of the year.
<UNK>, as I opened up the call with -- we have always tried to be more selective in our expansion, making sure we have the management capacity to not only operate the facilities, but also to ensure client satisfaction.
Sometimes we don't spend enough time talking about how critical retention is to our top-line growth in the near term, but more importantly, to our growth that's going to happen three years down the line.
Our existing client base acts as our reference list.
More than 9 out of every 10 of our new opportunities come from an existing customer in some form or fashion.
So for the balance of the year, our focus will continue to be around focusing on the quality and the quantity of the management pipeline, which is a district by district, region by region exercise because more than anything else, the pace at which we're able to develop management talent, specifically at the MIT and department head level is the gating factor on how quickly we can grow.
Having said that, I would say as far as the bolus of new business that we have added during the first quarter, other than the Southwest divisions, which opened up about a third of the new facilities during Q1, the buildings were really pretty evenly distributed across both the divisions as well as the segments.
So we would expect more normal course of business-type growth for the balance of the year, especially in those areas less impacted by the expansion.
And that's what should put us in and around that double-digit top-line range for 2016, and moving ahead towards 2017 as well.
I mean, for us, <UNK>, it's treated as a traditional pass-through cost.
So from a contract administration perspective, the adjustments are pretty straightforward.
Really, the difference for us as it relates to the minimum wage specifically is more form over substance.
Rather than the local market forces driving the inflationary pressures and the administrator planning for or reacting to a tight or slack labor market in states like California and New York, the wage pass-throughs would be determined by government mandate.
But financially it's really a cost neutral proposition for us since the contract pass-throughs are margin preservation, not margin expansion tools.
And, look, this is a new -- this isn't a new dynamic for us either.
We have dealt with minimum wage increases for years as a Company.
As far as some of the anecdotal feedback we've heard from our client partners, it's more around the amount of the proposed increases, specifically in New York and California, rather than the mechanics behind it, where in the past, minimum wage hikes would typically have a ripple effect on the entire wage scale.
Under the current proposals, that ripple impact may not be economically feasible in many facilities, which, as a derivative impact, could affect their ability to attract and retain talented licensed staff.
It could promote greater wage parity, which could result in employee morale issues.
All of those are arguments and I believe they are valid arguments against minimum wage increases and typical arguments you expect to hear from the provider side.
But it remains kind of to be seen what will ultimately happen.
But that's some of the preliminary albeit anecdotal concerns we have heard from our clients.
As far as the overall health of the client base, we haven't seen anything on a macro level that would be cause for concern.
As you know, <UNK>, we have always managed the credit on a facility by facility, client by client basis rather than in the aggregate, knowing good operators, good managers are going to thrive in difficult reimbursement times and poor operators will struggle, even what may be perceived as a stable reimbursement environment.
But I would say today, we manage the credit as tightly as we have at any point in time in the Company's history.
We have actually left or reduced services in more facilities for credit-related reasons over the past five years than we have the first 35 years of the Company combined.
We won't leave the Company in a lurch.
But when necessary, we will give back the largest component of the contract, payroll and in dining, the food purchasing component, until they get back on their fiscal feet, in which case, we are more than happy to transition back to full-services.
But typically, once those types of discussions or negotiations commence, it's a pretty significant incentive to live -- for the client to live up to its payment terms or at least agree to a work-out that we're both amenable to, that allows us to stay full-service in the facilities.
And just to put even some financial context around the topic, if you look back historically, we have written off less than 0.05% of our receivables, in large part, because of our collection strategy and our general approach to the customer base, but also because the providers' good faith obligation to use the reimbursed funds for their stated purpose.
So we will continue to manage the credit on an individualized basis and that gives us the flexibility to custom craft our collection strategy, depending on the facts and circumstances on the ground.
But overall, nothing on a macro basis that would give us cause for concern, although we certainly do hear, again, more anecdotal client by client, group by group, some of the feedback around bundled payment, RAC audits and some of the other issues du jour that Medicare and the government is kind of pushing their way.
Thank you, <UNK>.
Good morning, <UNK>.
I mean, for us, <UNK>, G&A is certainly -- came in strongly this quarter, but for us, until we can consistently demonstrate that we can get that SG&A under 7%, I mean, 7% remains, I think for us, a realistic target.
Given the fact that we are committed as a Company to continue our investments in clinical support, in expanding appropriately our human resources function and continuing to develop a best-in-class legal department here at the corporate office.
So for all those reasons, I would expect SG&A to continue in and around that 7% range.
But certainly on a cost of services side of the ledger, we think there is opportunities and we have already seen the benefits of the captive vehicle and it's hard to say, as we sit here now, that it's sort of business as usual with the captive, having seen the benefits come through in the fourth quarter and now, just as expected here in the first quarter as well, to the tune of about a $1.5 million benefit in the cost of services line.
But more importantly, and the larger opportunity for us continues to be the underutilization of our middle management structure, specifically, in the dining segment.
As you recall, the district managers in our scheme of things should be overseeing 10 to 12 facilities, and in Dining, they are still really only averaging about nine facilities or so.
The regional manager should oversee four to six districts and in Dining, they are currently only overseeing about four districts per region right now.
So as we continue to selectively expand our client base in the Dining segment, those middle managers will become more fully utilized and then ultimately, that margin structure of Dining should mirror that of Housekeeping & Laundry.
So there still is, call it, 250 or so, basis point opportunity in that segment, which ultimately works us as a company from, where we are presently and historically down to an 85% cost-of-service company.
I would expect in the near term, certainly next quarter, we would expect in and around that $1.5 million, <UNK>.
Certainly, looking beyond that, there are opportunities for that number to increase, but for purposes of next quarter, I think it's a safe estimation that we would be in and around that same level.
It's really just, I guess, the one con of being an entity that's taxed, fully taxed at the both federal and state income tax rates is when you start to drive pre-tax income, your tax rate increases.
So it's really just that, both at the federal level and some of the states that we operate in, that we're being taxed at the higher end of the graduated scale, which pushes that tax rate closer to 37% rather than 36%.
Again, the WOTC is still a valuable program for us and in absolute dollars, that program will grow alongside the size of the Company, the size of our employee base.
But as pre-tax earnings grow as well, then our effective tax rate will rise, albeit modestly and incrementally, it will continue to rise.
But we would expect 37%, certainly, for the balance of 2016.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Good morning, <UNK>.
So we saw a little bit more than two-thirds of that recognized in first quarter, <UNK>.
And certainly, in the second quarter, we will see the full run rate of the new business adds.
No, <UNK>.
Certainly, we wish we could.
We have continued to look for innovative ways to do just that.
But for us, getting resumes has never been an issue and hiring folks into our management training program has never been the issue.
We have certainly always demonstrated the ability to get the appropriate number of candidates into that program.
But it's been getting them through that program that remains a challenge, given the fact that we are committed to really a hands-on apprenticeship-type training model, really, a 90-day training program.
The first 30 days of which is, you will be performing the blue-collar tasks that you will ultimately be managing.
We need to make sure that they are comfortable in a nursing home setting, which is certainly not for everyone.
Managing our caliber of employees, which are blue collar, certainly lower on the wage scale than they might be otherwise used to interacting with, and it's a difficult and demanding client base.
Not to mention, that our whole model is based on efficiency.
So we need them to be 100% certain that they know how long it takes to perform each and every one of those tasks.
So we have not had success, <UNK>, in recruiting mid-level managers from other service companies and trying to give them a crash course in our way of doing things and acclimating to our customer base.
So we're more convinced than ever that the training and development has to happen in the field at the facilities in that very hands-on fashion.
It's because of that, that we lose two out of three of those management candidates in the first two weeks of that training program.
So as much as we've tried alternatives, whether it's recruiting mid-level managers or accelerating the training program or even trying to conduct training in more of a classroom-type setting, none of those models have been successful to date.
Not to say that we don't continue to look for innovative ways to increase the success rate at which candidates make it through the training program, but nothing on the horizon that would enable us to do that.
And so having said that, we continue to remain committed to that promotion from within model that we've always adhered to.
So as <UNK> said, certainly the demand for the services is greater than what we are able to service, but we have to grow in a fashion that enables us to stick to the management development mandates, and more importantly, to <UNK>'s earlier point, keep that client base satisfied.
Keep the retention levels as high or higher than they ever have been historically because that is the base from which we continue to grow the business.
As far as the facility count, it's over 3,800 facilities in Housekeeping and over 1,000 in dining, <UNK>.
And then retention rates have historically been greater than 90%.
We've been trending closer to 95% than we have to 90% the past 90 days, although that's something we work, as <UNK> said, awfully hard at.
There are a lot of factors that go into play with managing that client retention.
And similar to how we've described other aspects of the business, until we demonstrate we can do it on a consistent basis, then we would be reluctant to say that's the new norm because much of our -- at least a significant portion of the retention and really, where we're most at risk is new client introductions or client transitions where new administrator comes into a facility, doesn't have the benefit of seeing the before and after of having worked with Healthcare Services Group.
He or she may have their own environmental services director or culinary director from their prior operation and they bring that candidate in.
We are better at reselling that individual today than we have been in the past, but that's still where we're most at risk.
Thanks <UNK>.
Morning, <UNK>.
It's really continuing to drive the underlying performance within the mix of claimants that we have from indemnity to medical only, which is really the crux of the programmatic enhancements that we have made.
All of the work we have done the past five years centered around reducing the scope and severity of a given claim.
So that's where the additional -- that's where the majority of the additional opportunity would come from.
Now, over the past five years, we have been successful in shifting that mix from what was, one-third, two-third -- one-third indemnity, two-third medical only to 15/85 -- 15% indemnity, 85% medical only.
The difference between the two types of claims on a fully-developed basis is $30,000-plus.
That's really where the opportunity longer-term would come from.
It's really a complete overhaul of our property and casualty programs that we began five years ago, the climax of which was dropping both the workers' comp and general liability programs into a captive insurance subsidiary.
But we introduced nurse case management, which was a proactive care-giving nurse to respond to the first -- be the first responder to a claimant rather than a claims adjuster sitting in a cubicle at a third party insurance office.
We introduced a third-party administrator in Gallagher Bassett and unbundled the programs.
Along with that, a national physicians panel, which proactively -- and again, proactively manages the claims and is the first responder in terms of doc visits and care-giving to a claimant.
So a series of adjustments over the years that, again, resulted in us being able to truly drive better claims experience.
I think DSO has been pretty stable the past few years in the 55 day range, which I think <UNK> mentioned during his opening remarks, below the target of 60 days.
Quarter-to-quarter fluctuations, <UNK>, upward or downward a couple days -- that's driven as much by timing of when we collect the payments at the end of any given month or quarter, how successful we are in getting paid the last day or the last week of the month rather than the first day or the first week of the following month.
There is nothing noteworthy in DSO.
We would call it out if there were.
So we would expect -- there is no reason for us to expect it wouldn't be in and around the range it's been at the past few years.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Yes.
There was that impact.
<UNK>.
As you know, we've talked about previously, when we are at our most inefficient is when we are starting a new relationship with a prospective client because of the fact that we do go in and rather than tear up the existing schedule that has been on the wall and put in our new systems with new staffing levels day one, we do allow those employees to work through that existing schedule while we simultaneously work with them to understand which employees want to work, who wants to buy into our model and make sure that we can really, most efficiently implement our systems into that new facility.
So given all that, really, we are absorbing the inefficiencies and inheriting the inefficiencies that, that new client had prior to our entry into the facility.
So it's typically, for us, a 30- to 60-day timeframe to be able to get in, do our due diligence and then really fully implement our systems to be at or better than how we have budgeted that facility to run.
So there was about a 20 to 30 basis point, I'd call it, impact on margins in the first quarter as a result of those new business adds.
As we sit here today, looking at those new facilities, there is nothing that suggests that they will not fall within kind of our historical 30- to 60-day timeframe as to us getting our systems implemented and getting the facilities on budget.
So there was an impact in Q1 to the tune of about 20 to 30 basis points, about $1 million of an impact, <UNK>, that as I mentioned, we would expect to be cleaned up within kind of the normal historical timeframe that we have targeted.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Before we wrap up, <UNK> was going to review our conference schedule over the next few months, so --.
Yes, just quickly, we will be at the UBS Global Healthcare Conference on the 24th of May.
That will be at the Grand Hyatt in New York.
We are going to present at the Jefferies 2016 Global Healthcare Conference; that's on the 7th of June, also at the Grand Hyatt in New York.
And then the Citi 2016 Small and Mid Cap Conference, which is the 9th of June and that will be at the Lotte New York Palace, in New York as well.
Hopefully, we will see some of you there.
Thanks.
Thank you, <UNK>.
Thank you, <UNK>, and I guess overall, the demand for our services continues to be greater than what we are capable of managing.
And with the regulatory and reimbursement uncertainty facing the healthcare provider community, that demand should only increase in the years ahead.
The pace at which we are able to development management talent continues to be both the rate limiting factor on our growth as well as our most significant organizational opportunity, which is why hands-on coaching and training, district by district, region by region, remains our highest priority in the year ahead.
We will look to keep our direct costs below 86% and work our way closer to 85% direct cost of services, with the primary drivers of that margin improvement being the Dining & Nutrition, districts and regions managing the right complement of facilities as well as our Property & Casualty and Employee Health & Welfare programs being managed out of the captive.
We expect our normalized SG&A to be about 7% going forward excluding any deferred comp impact but remain committed to ongoing investment in our clinical dietician, HR, and legal functions.
As we move through 2016 in what is our 40th year of business, we continue to operate in a recession-proof market niche.
The demographic trends have been and continue to be in our favor.
We're in an unprecedented cost-containment environment that's really increased the demand for outsourcing services of all kinds, including ours.
We have the most talented management team that we've had in the history of the organization and we have the financial wherewithal to grow the business as fast as our ability to manage it.
Ours is an execution business and our ability to execute is what will drive our success in the months and years ahead.
So on behalf of <UNK>, <UNK>, and all of us at Healthcare Services Group, we wanted to thank you for participating today, and have a great rest of the week, everyone.
