So, no, we are not seeing that on the other end because a lot of the backlog is related to EPI<UNK>
We are seeing requests for further accelerating that so on the shipment side we are not seeing any deceleration of shipment.
That comment applied mostly in terms of challenges, in terms of accessing credit or capital applied mostly toward booking.
Thanks, <UNK>.
The recent orders have been really new fab expansions, no significant amount of replacements at this point.
I think it's going out exactly as expected, and in general there's been pull to go faster more than anything else, so it's -- I think it's happening right on plan for us.
It is.
There is variation, and there is -- there are some unproductive tools in Korea also.
But the Tier 1s are relatively up there around 90%, some a little higher some a little lower.
Thanks, <UNK>.
We will take some of those tools and convert them into revenue, and at this point we are not adding to the deferred revenue bucket, because most of the tools that we ship now are getting recognized as revenue upon shipment.
So what I can say to you is that it's going to come down over time.
Most of these should get recognized by the time the year ends.
And as I've said previously, we gave the deferred revenue guidance because we had just released a new product, and it was difficult for the street to understand the activity level going on in the Company.
So respectfully I think I would decline to provide the guidance, <UNK>.
Well the customer base with the customer consolidation, the number of substantial orders per quarter now is two to four customers in a typical quarter here, and whereas if we go back three or four years it would be 15 to 20.
So there are substantially fewer players down to a number of companies that are striving to be world class leaders.
I think that makes the business more lumpy, and that will continue as we serve a smaller customer base.
I think regarding EPIK, when we look at the orders, it's over 80% of our orders now I would say in MOCVD, so the market has moved quickly to purchases of EPIK, more quickly than past product transitions that we've seen.
And I would add to that that EPIK really enables our customers to compete effectively in this low price end device market, so that's why we are seeing a pretty significant pull on EPI<UNK>
Okay.
With that, we will close off the Q&A session.
Thank you for joining us.
Look forward to seeing you in the coming weeks and months.
Thank you.
Thanks.
