Well, the -- <UNK>, if you look at the margins on the new products, your point is exactly right.
We were having great margins, but that was offset in this last quarter with our effort to let's get the old out of here.
And so the margins got hit.
At the end of the day, it hurt us, but we made a lot of progress.
Now, in April, we still have some of that product.
And we're going to -- but there's less of it than we've had in many, many years.
And so, therefore, we are in a much better position and we'll be selling more of the new products.
I think what we had said earlier is that we would expect it to be diminished by the March quarter.
I think we said that a couple of quarters ago.
I think with our efforts just to get in such good shape for the selling season, we still saw some pressure.
The thing that gets a little tough to bake into the equation -- at least we're finding it's a little tough -- is, this is a -- it's a three-year complete revamp of our largest supplier.
And we are in the first year right now.
The first year is kind of coming to an end at the end of June.
But then we've got a whole bunch of new models the year after that, and a whole bunch the year after that.
In theory, we should start to have enough of the new stuff to offset any of the margin pressure caused by cleaning out the older stuff.
I mean, that should be happening here in the near-term.
Is it the June quarter.
September.
But it's definitely here because the margins are -- to <UNK>'s point -- are good on the new models -- really from any manufacturer.
But --.
And we're having great success with Scarab.
Now with four different models, it's starting to really light up across the country.
So we should get some help with that this quarter.
We saw a little help with it last quarter, being it's not a big delivery of smaller boat type quarter.
So if you take what's going on with Boston Whaler with their new products and with Scout, and with Sailfish and Sea Ray and Azimut, I mean, the stars are starting to align here.
But it's not a switch -- we didn't get it all cleared out this quarter.
But we sure made a big dent in it.
Thank you, <UNK>.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Yes.
Short answer is yes, with what we have on the ground and what's coming.
What the industry experienced, <UNK>, was a real bad decline in inventory turns.
And our turns need to improve even from where they are going to conclude this year.
So we are improving turns, which will improve profitability, pressure product yields, higher margins, et cetera.
So, yes, we feel very good about our inventory and our ability to sell and deliver boats in the season.
I think for the balance of this year, you'll see more and more progress eliminating it all.
But you know it's -- will it all happen this quarter.
We are sure pushing to do that, but I kind of doubt it.
But I'd say overall it will start to drawing a little less and less and less, and the margins will improve better and better, because that new product has a substantially higher margin than the older long-in-the-tooth product.
Before <UNK> comments on it (laughter) -- I mean, obviously, this month, it would have been nice to have given some guidance because we knew we were going to focus on aged inventory and long-in-the-tooth product.
And we -- but we did more than we even anticipated starting the month.
But we would've probably have announced that early on, and not had the news that we got this morning about all the agencies.
But, you know, our Board has discussed it.
We've discussed it.
And I'll let <UNK> give you his comments on it.
Yes, we -- I mean, honestly, we talked about it again this morning.
So, it is a topic that we are exploring.
And do we go back to -- we gave guidance for a decade, and so we are considering whether we should go back.
And is there enough clarity out there.
Is there enough uncertainty that's been removed in the industry to start giving guidance again.
And on an annual basis, it would probably be what it would be versus anything else.
So it's certainly in consideration right now.
<UNK>, your point is right.
It's been a very quarter month-to-month, as <UNK> and I agree.
And so we are discussing it as we speak.
What do you think.
Yes, yes.
We appreciate that, <UNK>.
Appreciate the feedback.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you, operator.
And in closing, I'd like to thank all of you for your continued support and interest in MarineMax.
<UNK> and I are available today if you have any additional questions.
And so, thank you for your time in the call.
