Thanks.
I'm looking at <UNK>, <UNK>.
I think when we recast the numbers we'll put out there then.
We just don't want to call it out right now.
It's not humongous.
Yes.
You will see that when we recast the numbers as <UNK> mentioned.
It's well, you will see it when we.
Yes.
Never enough.
We still are, yes.
That's what we said when we did the deal a couple of weeks ago, but some of that will be direct, and some of that will be OEM, right.
And we're kind of working through that right now, as we figure out the distribution channels.
No, no, no.
The minority goes into the OEM bucket.
I think on the last call we said we got a dual source award, and I think the thing that's changed is now we've been able to talk to those customers.
That's just starting, I don't know if we were in an inning yet.
We're at an anthem.
We're still at the anthem, but they are just one customer, even if we got all of them, that's still not our ambition, we still have to fight and compete to get that business in the market.
They're only one of piece of what can be a really interesting market.
Yes.
I think that's an okay assumption.
Actually, we didn't record it.
The transaction finalized in October.
No, no.
He is talking about--
Nothing material.
No.
Yes.
I mean, and I don't think it's exactly the ChemoClave situation that you described there.
So what's happened is we had a product out in the market to make sure the design and specs were what we should they should be, we iterated, it's been a long iteration since I got here, but I think we have locked down a design, and now we're moving it into production.
That will take some more time, but we're talking about it with more confidence than we used to talk about it, I mean we think it will make some impact at some point in next year.
The goal of that product is not to cannibalize our existing business, or anybody else's existing business.
The goal of that product is to convert unconverted market into using a closed system.
Independent of where price would be, the bigger opportunity is getting people who aren't using these important technologies today to adopt them.
That's more valuable to us.
Not really.
It might in the next quarter or two, as we transition some of the stuff in Asia.
Thanks <UNK>.
