We gave guidance for the full first quarter on that, and talked about on core and total revenue up 11% to 13%, but we didn't say anything about January.
We have an unfunded liability at the end of 2015 of about $200 million and we will be making a pension contributions to the plan in 2016 of something between $5 million and $10 million.
Yes.
I can start and maybe <UNK> can add-on as well.
The TV group was very mindful about making sure that as the political race unfolds we are able to take the most advantage of that.
And there were some expenses in terms of promotion at the station, would be one of them that we had incurred in Q4, to make sure that we were where we needed to be to capture most of those dollars.
Hi <UNK>, it's <UNK>.
Let me kind of give it to you at sort of high-level then I will let <UNK> give you a little more detail.
As we said, if you look at the digital segments you've got several things going on at the same time.
The local piece, which I believe as <UNK> said is about 65% of the revenue.
You know that more by the day becomes a knowable business, where we can see what we think the revenue growth is going to be in the future, and it is going to continue to be strong and a sense of the expenses.
So that keeps us moving toward profitability.
But I have to tell you, we can get it to profitability much faster, but we have not been in a big hurry.
When we look at the impacts also on the on air side that digital has, we have been pleased to just continue to build out what we believe were the market-leading digital brands and we think there will be value there.
So we'll get to profitability over the next couple of years.
We could make that quicker if we wanted, but we don't think it's wise.
Midroll, the second piece, is profitable and growing.
Although there is some investment in there as well as we add other elements to it and try to round out what is already a very strong position we have in podcasting.
And in Newsy is, Newsy is the one I think you and I have talked about.
We have an opportunity here, we are building a very strong brand with have a somewhat uncommon content strategy and programming strategy.
Carriage agreements with pretty much all of the players.
But you know that marketplace will shake out over the next couple of years.
But you know the faster we see growth in Newsy viewership, probably the more aggressive we will be on the investment side.
So I sort of look at how the pieces have fall together, we did not budget that segment -- we didn't start out with well, here's what revenue and cash flow needs to be in that segment.
We are focused on building value in real businesses inside of it and then the segment number falls out at the bottom.
We don't know want to show losses in any segment for any longer than we have too.
But while we are building value we are going to kind of keep our foot on the petal.
Here's <UNK> for a little more detail.
Yes, for the fourth quarter we bought about 300,000 shares, in Q4.
And we don't comment about whether we are currently active or not.
We have been buying under plans very consistently since the window open again after the journal transaction.
And I would continue to expect that -- you and I have talked a lot about capital allocation over the last year or so, 2016 will be a strong cash flow year from us.
And I expect we will continue all of the above strategy of continuing to pick up national digital brands, TV stations in attractive markets, and continue with the share repurchase program.
Thanks
What I think we've said about 2017 and 2018 is, that we expect a nice double-digit growth in 2017 and 2018.
And then of course the Comcast contract comes due in 2019.
So we will see a stairstep increase when the impact of that kicks in.
That is correct.
Very much like we've been saying for the past six months or so.
