Yes.
In a word, yes.
Suffolk Construction -- John Fish brought his old management team for their quarterly retreat and he wanted them to see what <UNK> was really like.
So they had the retreat of all of his company in this hotel.
They didn't even tell us they were coming, they paid retail here at the hotel.
But we had a chance to talk to them and John has said 28 months of construction.
So that is straight from the builder and he signed his name to it.
With liquid data damages.
No, as a matter of fact that one casino that is being built is being managed by the folks from Malaysia, from Genting.
And I had coffee with K.
T.
Lin day before yesterday -- yesterday actually, and it is very much like Macau.
It is a different market share than we are in.
This thing in Boston is pure <UNK>.
It is the <UNK> Las Vegas in a new form moved to Massachusetts.
So naturally it is going to appeal to a different kind of customer than the stuff that is up there now.
And it was designed to do so.
So I don't think it affects our expectation about revenue and the opportunity there if that is your question.
Well, we never know what the Street is going to do with the funky trading.
And we all feel that, both as individuals and as a <UNK>, that we should be prepared to take advantage of real opportunity when it occurs.
And my Board feels that way and so do I.
So we just wanted to make sure that we are properly armed in case there was something strange that happened on Wall Street and the stock market dropped or our stock went to a level that we thought was grossly oversold we would jump on it.
As long as the short players fool around for a buck or two that is fine.
But when shorts -- the exchanges really don't enforce the rules of make it shorts.
So it is an unconscionable manipulation of the stock that occurs.
They open up every morning and the high-frequency traders and the shorts have a ball selling shares and then value buyers step in in the afternoon and they cover the shorts.
It is regular casino activity.
The activity on the stock markets is in my view poorly regulated and irresponsibly policed, especially with regard to short sales.
And when it gets out of hand we see a lot of shorts because of China.
Because we are such a clear China play we probably had a bigger percentage wouldn't you say, <UNK> <UNK>.
Yes, that is right.
Short interest in our shares.
14 million shares as of (multiple speakers).
14 million shares.
And although I can't do nothing about it myself I take advantage of it when it gets out of line and buy shares.
I mean it is fine when they drive the stock down for reasons that are irrelevant and completely disconnected from anything to do with our business operations.
So the stock market has got more volatile, more stupid as a gambling game than ever before.
And I look at it that way to be honest with you.
I have very little respect for the integrity of the trading on the exchange in most stocks.
And I have particular disdain for the fact that the SEC has failed to deal with high-frequency traders who are doing nothing more than taking advantage of inside information, a buy or a sell order, because of technology advantages.
If you read Flash Boys it is all spelled out for you.
And if I execute an order I will use the [IX] -- I'll use Brad Katsuyama if I was buying something so that I couldn't be fronted by the high-frequency traders, but there is enough a lot of that going on.
The other day I was watching the stock open up and it went up on share volumes of a few thousand shares.
I mean every trade was a tick up.
That is not the way it should operate in an honestly or intelligently run exchange, but that is the thing.
All those guys sold their dark pools and their order flow and the positioning on the floors of the servers to the HFTs.
And it has made a couple guys that I am friendly with very rich because they are high-frequency traders.
But I don't respect the activity.
And I am severely critical of it and don't mind saying so either.
Okay thanks, everybody, for joining.
We will talk next quarter.
