Sure.
On diapers, and I think the near-term commodity weakness isn't resulting in any significant price movement.
If you kind of look at it over the last couple of years, we've had a pretty good amount of commodity increases that there was no price recovery for, so if you looked at the net-net it, we're still -- even with the deflation we're going to have this year is less than the inflation we had last year that we didn't get any pricing for.
I would say in the range that we're in, I don't think it's going to move price significantly.
I also think the consumer is in the stronger position than they were a year ago and we want to make sure that we're -- that we've got the right offer and that we've got a very good performing product at a competitive price in the marketplace, which is sort of in the heritage of Huggies for many years and we're really making sure that we stay true to that.
In terms of the competitive environment, if you look all over the world, there 's plenty of people that get up every morning wanting to take your business, and so we think about the Japanese competitors, Unicharm and Kao are quite aggressive.
Local Chinese competitors like Hengan are aggressive.
We've got local competitors in Latin America with CMPC and then SCA is popping up in lots of places.
And obviously P&G is a formidable global competitor as well.
We know we've got to be moving pretty fast every day to bring right innovation, to execute well in the market, to continue to deliver on our business plans and our teams are up for that challenge.
I didn't know you were with Park Place.
That's great.
(Laughter)
Private label shares are up a little bit.
I'm looking at the shared data, but it's -- I don't know if you got it, <UNK>.
They're up 1 point.
Up about a point.
I'd say it's been more the competitive price points from some of the smaller players in the market that has been making some noise.
As you know, we, last year, consolidated everything under the U by Kotex name and that execution went pretty well.
We still think that we can do even better in terms of how we merchandise that in store and make sure that we have got the right product and the offer.
Our super premium, our U by Kotex line, was a little slower growth this quarter, so that's one that we are really focusing on to make sure that we got the right innovation messaging there.
Again, some of it's the category and some of is we'd probably say we could do better on the innovation and execution front.
That's a great question.
That's something that we're spending a lot of time on.
We've got lots of digital marketing work going on all over the world and are trying to make sure we're investing in that capability in each individual market.
And then where find something that works to share best practices at a faster pace.
So I think that's something that every CPG out there is doing and particularly in the target market of fem care for late teen girls.
They are very connected on their social experience and we want to make sure that we're relevant there.
So for example, in China, with our relaunch of our Kotex brand there, it's been nearly 100% digital marketing and almost no network TV in that space, just because of the importance of that channel to that consumer.
So it's -- we've had some real successes and we've also learned some things along the way of what not to do.
But we've got a lot of good work going on in that space.
We launched that, it was what.
Early last year or late 2013.
Late 2013, I think, was the first shipments, but it really kind started to hit its stride in 2014.
Our brand there is Intimus by Kotex, which is a brand that we acquired.
We're upgrading that with some of the global innovation that we've done in other markets along the lines of the U by Kotex things that we've done in the US and seeing a very good response.
We picked up brand leadership in Brazil in fem care for the first time in a long time and we have good momentum going in that market.
It's more the product itself and actually, it is more of a global innovation.
A lot of the stuff the US guys are launching and was invented in Korea or China or elsewhere.
That global team is probably doing the best job of any that we have of driving an idea consistently around the world.
That, five years ago, probably would've been our most disparate product form everywhere and today we're all on roughly on the same product chassis.
We're trying to take that learning and do it in other areas.
Some of the things that were doing in diaper pants and baby wipes are tapping into that, where our local teams still have local optimization but we're able to drive a more consistent message around the world.
Thanks, <UNK>.
All right, since we have no more questions on the line, we thank you for your interest today and we will close with a comment from <UNK>.
Once again, a good quarter of top- and bottom-line results and good execution by the team.
We really appreciate your interest and support in Kimberly-Clark.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
