From a percentage perspective, the degradation from say -- when we start to provide the mix between wire bonding and flip chip was actually started out on the 85% level.
The degradation is 1% per year, but in a growing pie from a units perspective.
In terms of our traditional core business, we haven't seen that much changes in terms of the players that's competing with it.
We are still a dominant leader, but we have seen a lot of pricing, let's just say competitiveness through pricing, especially in China.
This could be a Japanese player who has actually 5% or actually the second player with 20% market share, but I would say, in terms of the competitive landscape, it is still the same.
Thank you.
Let me just address the APMR side and then maybe, Joe, you can get the other one.
The APMR business, as we actually had communicated and shared with the Street, is that we had a sizable order that came through, which really accelerated the performance of that unit.
That's actually related to an SIP application order of 60-plus in terms of units and is actually multi-quarters.
That went from the March quarter to June quarter and it will taper off in this current quarter.
So this is all in line with expectation and this is for the more performance-oriented smartphone sector.
So from a performance perspective, even though it is actually a modest increase from March to June quarter, it is still reflective of that volume order that we received.
So from a performance perspective, we are very pleased actually with the performance of APMR and we continue to actually look for other opportunities going forward.
Obviously, this sizable multi-quarter order was actually fantastic for us and we'll continue to look for something, but that is something that doesn't come quite as consistent as we like it to be.
But what it proves to us though is that the acquisition of actually Assembleon and through the hybrid platform, it really positions well for the advanced packaging, how we serve our customer in the semiconductor space through these advanced packaging solutions.
Whether or not it's APAMA, which is definitely a more accurate -- has higher accuracy, but the hybrid machine definitely has the higher speed and the necessary accuracy to meet the customer's needs in today's requirement.
Well, we do expect the fact that we -- at least with this higher-end performance segment, smartphone segment, we do have actually quite sizable share with this particular customer through an OSAT.
So we do expect future, let's just say demand, possible demand, for the same type of applications, perhaps through other makers of these high-end smartphones.
You're welcome.
