Thank you.
Good morning, and welcome to our Third Quarter 2018 Earnings Call.
Joining us today are Mike <UNK>, Chairman and CEO; <UNK> <UNK>, Chief Operating Officer, Barnes & Noble Education, and President of Barnes & Noble College; <UNK> <UNK>, our CFO; <UNK> <UNK>, Vice President Strategy and Development, and Chief Operating Officer of Digital Education; as well as other members of our senior management team.
Before we begin, I would remind you that the statements we will make on today's call are covered by our safe harbor disclaimer contained in our press release and public documents.
The contents of this call are the property of Barnes & Noble Education and are not for rebroadcast or use by any other party without prior written consent of Barnes & Noble Education.
During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements with predictions, projections and other statements about future events.
These statements are based upon current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those contained in our press release and public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements that may be made or discussed during this call.
At this time, I will turn the call over to Mike <UNK>.
Thanks, Tom.
Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us.
We're pleased with our results this quarter, both from an operational and the financial perspective.
Barnes & Noble Education has always been, and continues to be, in the center of aggregating and distributing the best educational content available for our higher education partners.
We've allocated capital prudently to fund operating systems, product development and expanded skill sets, so we can strengthen our position at that center of aggregation and distribution, both for physical and digital formats of course material.
Today, I'll give important new and specific examples of how our expertise and relationships are translating into new opportunities for BNED to continue to be a leader in delivering the best educational courseware and system solutions to our customers.
But first, some observations on the market.
While the higher education market continues to evolve rapidly, we experienced similar trends this Spring Rush to those we noted last fall, including our lower average selling prices on course materials, driven by lower publisher prices; and continued student migration to lower-cost Courseware alternatives, including digital offerings.
Our business continues to address an increasing emphasis on affordability and measurable achievement related to course content and student success as well as declining enrollment trends and an accelerating shift to digital and other less costly formats of developing and delivering educational content.
Given these dynamics, we are actively transforming our business for even greater success in the market.
We remain well positioned to capture new market share and collaborate with an increasing number of schools and strategic partners, both within and outside of our store footprint.
Our acquisitions of MBS and Student Brands, which both performed extremely well this quarter, as well as our newly expanded relationships with leading publishers, are key accomplishments and enhance our ability to offer more content and services to the students, faculty and institutions we serve.
To briefly highlight our consolidated results for the quarter, BNED consolidated sales of $603.4 million increased 15.7% as compared to the prior year period.
Year-to-date, consolidated sales of $1,846,000,000 increased 20.5% as compared to the prior year period.
Consolidated third quarter GAAP net loss was $283.2 million as compared to net income of $3.8 million in the prior year period.
Year-to-date GAAP net loss was $269.6 million as compared to net income of $5.1 million in the prior year period.
The third quarter and year-to-date net loss includes the impact of a noncash goodwill impairment charge of $313.1 million in the BNC segment.
Consolidated third quarter non-GAAP adjusted earnings was $19.6 million compared to $4 million in the prior year period.
And year-to-date non-GAAP adjusted earnings was $39.8 million compared to $7.8 million in the prior year period.
Consolidated third quarter non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA was $34.6 million, an increase of $15.8 million or 84% compared to the prior year period.
And year-to-date non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA was $104.6 million, an increase of $51.9 million or 98% compared to the prior year period.
<UNK> will discuss our updated outlook in his remarks.
Moving to our third quarter financial results, and the business priorities we are focusing on in each of our segments.
In our Barnes & Noble College segment, third quarter 2018 sales were approximately $15.2 million less than last year, and $13.3 million lower for the 39 weeks of this fiscal year compared with last year.
The comp store sales decline for BNC was $31.3 million or a decline of 6.2%, primarily driven by lower textbook sales, which were down 7.2% on a comparable store basis for the quarter.
The Spring Rush is flipped between the months of January, when our third quarter ends; and February, which falls into our fourth quarter.
Taking into account our estimated sales for the month of February, comp store sales declined 4.2% on a year-to-date basis.
The lower textbook sales reflect decreasing enrollments, especially at community colleges, as well as increasing competition and a continuing shift to digital textbooks and Courseware.
Approximately 60% of our comparable textbook sales decline relates to lower average textbook prices, which in addition to expanded customization options, affected the mix of learning materials sold and rented in the quarter.
Students have prioritized buying course materials not only by price but also by ease of access.
General merchandise sales in the third quarter, which accounted for approximately 26% of total sales for BNC, decreased by $3.5 million or 2.8% on a comp-store basis; while the year-to-date gross merchandise comp sales decreased by just under 1%.
The decline in gross merchandise sales for the quarter was driven by more generic categories like school supplies, computers and convenience, partially offset by increases in emblematic clothing and gifts.
In response to these dynamics, we continue to enhance our multichannel retail experience, ensuring that our customers have access to our products in our stores, online through our school-branded e-commerce sites and on our mobile apps.
Our Web orders for the quarter continued to grow, increasing 5.8% over last year, representing approximately 33% of BNC's total sales for the quarter.
In addition to our school-branded e-commerce sites and mobile apps, we also operate 87 dedicated athletic and alumni sites called True Spirit sites.
We expect to continue to grow those True Spirit sites -- websites given their positive impact on sales.
In response to the changing dynamics in the course materials landscape, especially the ongoing shift to digital content, we continue to enhance and promote our inclusive access program, which we brand as First Day.
Inclusive access programs effectively address the needs of students, the institutions and the publishers offering course materials at reduced prices through a course materials fee for participating programs.
These models ensure that students receive their materials on or before the first day of class, and they have a proven track record of driving positive outcomes for students.
During the Spring Rush period, we successfully piloted our proprietary First Day systems and have proved they are ready to scale in the fall of this year.
Our recently announced important agreements with McGraw-Hill Education and Pearson allow us to offer their content through inclusive access models, including First Day at our campus stores nationwide.
The ability to offer their content through our proprietary systems further strengthens our position at the center of content aggregation and distribution for the students, faculties and institutions we serve.
In fiscal year of 2019, we expect to double the amount of First Day's options; and using our scalability, expect to substantially increase the sell-through volume of content by us and our publishing partners.
As we continue to roll out First Day initiatives, we're also reinforcing our contractual exclusivity rights as a sole provider of course materials on those campuses.
Approximately 90% of our contracts provide for such exclusivity rights.
As we move forward, we will continue to explore, broaden and deepen such relationships that enhance our educational services and our distribution platforms or that create compelling content offerings we can earn a good return on.
As we continue to successfully compete and develop new relevant services in the marketplace for our largest platform, which is our college bookstore platform, we also continue to grow our digital offerings.
We've gained significant momentum in OER Courseware adoptions, with a broad spectrum of institutional clients.
This past fall, and now again in this spring, we offered 18 OER courses serving more than 16,000 students.
We expect to continue to grow and emphasize 2 broad digital initiatives.
First, an increased focus on the direct-to-student digital market.
Our August acquisition of Student Brands, which gave us our first direct-to-student sales channel and expanded our digital footprint to include Student Brands' 20 million unique monthly visitors.
As a leading direct-to-student subscription-based writing skills services business, Student Brands contributed $10.1 million of revenue and $5.8 million of adjusted EBITDA to BNC in its first 2 quarters of integration, exceeding our expectations with its strong performance.
We are gradually developing additional digital services we can market and distribute effectively across our 6 million student footprint as well as outside of our current footprint.
Second, our institutional market focus: our LoudCloud analytics platform, which allows us to provide institutions with an advanced data-driven solution for driving outcomes on their campuses.
60% of students seeking a bachelor's degree at a 4-year institution graduate in 6 years.
Clearly, schools want and need tools that will help them increase success for their students, which equates to the success of the institution itself.
With LoudCloud and our host of other products and services, we are uniquely positioned to help institutions solve these pain points.
Looking ahead, we're continuing to focus on our position at the center of aggregating and delivering high quality, more affordable Courseware and solutions by optimizing our physical and digital assets, both separately, but just as importantly, together.
Turning now to our MBS segment.
MBS's total sales for the quarter were $138.9 million, with $92.2 million attributable to MBS wholesale and $46.7 million attributable to MBS Direct.
MBS continues to perform well and exceed our acquisition-date expectations.
When we acquired MBS, which was almost exactly a year ago, our intention was to stabilize the business and utilize MBS's advanced distribution platform.
And now a year later, we are optimistic that we will achieve that objective.
We continue to recognize synergies of inventory management by transferring [under utilized] inventory from BNC to MBS, which sells it to its school partners.
One significant recent example of MBS's leverage.
We recently announced that MBS, as well as BNC, will play an important role as a key distributor of McGraw-Hill Education's new rental program.
Our company will drive the success of this program through our large footprint and expertise in rental programs; with MBS, in particular, bringing the many benefits of their centralized advanced distribution center.
MBS is able to administer, track and invoice each and every rental book used by participating students of this program, regardless of their campus or bookstore affiliation.
Other publishers have announced, tested and begun to implement similar rental programs.
And we believe we have unique capabilities and experience to help them all make their rental program successful ones.
In closing, we remain energized to create and deliver what our customers are demanding: affordable and high quality integrated educational services and content that will result in improved student and partner experiences and outcomes.
Accomplishing this mission of ours will translate to value creation for BNED and all of our stakeholders.
As we head to all-inclusive models that's showed a much higher Courseware sell-through for us, we expect to leverage that increased penetration across our various offerings for the benefit of our college partners, students, our publishing partners and BNE<UNK>
We expect to be able to maintain our central position in aggregating and distributing both physical and digital educational content, while we also develop and roll out exciting new services and solutions that will gain increased visibility in our upcoming fiscal year 2019.
We're focused on executing our strategy for change, to drive results and build long-term value.
We have significantly expanded our addressable market through accretive acquisitions, strategic partnerships and continued innovation.
Our goal remains to offer the most comprehensive suite of quality educational products and services to our existing and future customers.
With that, I'll turn it over to <UNK> for the financial review.
Thank you, Mike.
Please note that the third quarter ended on January 27, 2018, and consisted of 13 weeks.
All comparisons will be to the third quarter of fiscal 2017, which excludes MBS and Student Brands, both of which were acquired after last year's third quarter.
Total sales for the quarter were $603.4 million compared with $521.6 million from the prior year.
This increase of $81.7 million or 15.7% was primarily driven by revenue of $138.9 million from the MBS segment, partially offset by a $15.2 million decrease at the BNC segment and intercompany sales eliminations of $42 million.
I will explain the impact of the timing of the intercompany eliminations in just a few moments.
The sales at BNC decreased as comparable store sales decline of $31.3 million exceeded the sales increase related to net new stores of $11.9 million and the increase of service revenue, which includes Student Brands revenue of $5.6 million.
Our service revenue includes high margin revenue from Student Brands, income from brand partnerships, along with Promoversity and LoudCloud.
Each of these businesses allow us to derive new sources of revenue in and out of our footprint and further monetize our customer base.
Comparable store sales decreased by 6.2% as compared to a decrease of 5.3% in the prior year period.
Comparable store sales were impacted by the later school rushes; lower student enrollment, specifically, in 2-year community colleges; increased consumer purchases directly from the publishers and other online providers; and other more general, negative retail trends.
The third quarter includes our spring Back to School rush sales that are impacted by students purchasing textbooks later in the semester, extending the rush period past the end of the quarter and into February.
After factoring in the month of February that contributed to the Spring Rush, the comp sales decline to the fiscal year-to-date, including February, was 4.2%.
Textbook sales for the third quarter declined 7.2% compared to a prior year period decline of 6.7%, impacted by the items previously mentioned and by lower average selling prices of course materials, driven by lower publisher prices resulting from a shift to lower cost and more affordable solutions, including digital.
We saw large increases in the sale of digital textbooks and smaller decreases in the sale of new digital books, while sales and rental and used textbooks decreased.
Sales for MBS in the third quarter were $138.9 million and in line with expectations.
The third quarter is the second highest sales quarter for MBS wholesale, due to the spring Back to School sales for higher ed.
Fiscal year-to-date sales at MBS were $413.6 million compared with $438.4 million in the fiscal 2017 pro forma quarterly financials.
The $24.8 million decline is in wholesale and primarily the result of the lower supply of bulk purchases of new textbooks that we previously discussed.
Our rental income for the quarter was $62.5 million, a decrease of $2 million or 3.1% as a result of more affordable publisher solutions, including digital; lower average selling prices; and the lower supply of used inventory in BNC stores, as we continue to optimize the inventory between BNC and MBS.
Gross margins increased by 26.4% to $146.5 million or 24.3% of sales.
The margin at BNC of 23.2% was 100 basis points higher than the previous period.
The increase was primarily the result of including the high margin Student Brands service revenue, higher rental margin rates and lower contract costs associated, partially offset by an unfavorable sales mix, including lower margin Courseware.
The gross margin at MBS was 25.2% in the third quarter and is consistent with the rate in the second quarter.
Selling and Administrative expenses increased by $14.9 million or 15.3% due to $14.1 million of expenses at MBS, including $1.7 million of expense allocations from BNC to MBS.
BNC's selling and administrative expenses increased by $0.7 million or 0.7% to $97.8 million from $97.1 million.
The increase was primarily due to a $0.7 million increase in new store payroll and operating expenses, net of closed stores; and a $2.1 million increase in Student Brands expenses; and $0.9 million increase in corporate overhead, including digital expenses.
These were partially offset by a $1.3 million decrease in comp store payroll and operating expenses and [$1 million] of shared corporate overhead costs allocated to MBS.
The intercompany elimination for sales and cost of sales are primarily related to sales from MBS to BNC and wholesale commissions earned on textbooks sold to MBS by BNC.
As expected, in the quarter, the gross profit elimination is smaller than the first quarter fiscal 2018, as BNC purchases are lower for the Spring Rush compared with the fall; and BNC was able to sell through a portion of the inventory in the third quarter, with $5.8 million of adjusted EBITDA remaining to be sold in the fourth quarter by BNC.
In the third quarter, the company completed its annual goodwill impairment test required by GAAP and determined that the carrying amount of goodwill at BNC exceeded its estimated fair value due to the reduction in BNED's market capitalization.
As a result, the company recorded a pretax, noncash impairment charge of $313.1 million at BNC or $302.9 million on a net tax basis.
The fiscal third quarter net loss of $283.2 million or $6.04 per diluted share compared with income of $3.8 million or $0.08 per diluted year in the prior year due to the inclusion of the goodwill impairment charge in the current fiscal quarter.
Due to the acquisition of MBS and Student Brands and their results, our total adjusted EBITDA increased by $15.8 million or 84% to $34.6 million for the quarter.
During the quarter, BNC contributed $19.6 million of adjusted EBITDA, while MBS contributed $20.8 million of adjusted EBITDA and $5.8 million of the gross profit was eliminated.
Fiscal year-to-date BNC adjusted EBITDA was $54.3 million, an increase by $1.6 million as the contribution of net new stores, the acquisition of MBS and the segment allocation -- the acquisition of Student Brands and the segment allocations to MBS exceeded the impact of the comp store sales decline.
Fiscal year-to-date MBS adjusted EBITDA was $56 million and decreased by $3.5 million as compared to the pro forma financials, as the EBITDA impact of the lower sales and the segment allocations exceeded the favorable margin and expense savings.
The MBS adjusted EBITDA continues to exceed the amounts included in our financial models at the time of the acquisition.
The effective tax rate for the fiscal third quarter was 5.1% compared with 16.8% in the prior year.
The effective tax rate for the 13 weeks ended January 27, 2018, is significantly lower as compared to the comparable prior year period due to the tax benefit of the U.S. tax reform; partially offset by permanent differences, which in this quarter, include the nondeductible portion of the goodwill impairment.
As a result of the Tax Reform Act, reducing the federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, our net deferred and long-term liabilities were reduced by $21.1 million, which lowered the income tax expense in the quarter.
In addition, the company's effective tax rate for fiscal year 2019 will be approximately 28%.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $22.4 million, and we had $113 million of outstanding borrowings.
The lower cash and higher borrowings compared with last year are the result of the MBS and Student Brands acquisitions, and we continue to expect the average debt to be approximately $150 million during fiscal year 2018.
At the end of the fiscal third quarter, inventory increased by $120.5 million compared to the same period in fiscal '17, due to the inclusion of MBS; as BNC inventory decreased by $4.7 million as a result of the continued improvements in purchasing and inventory management, and BNC realizing the synergies related to the inventory optimization by transferring underutilized inventory from BNC to MBS.
Accounts payable was $8.6 million higher, also reflecting the inclusion of MBS.
Capital expenditures for the third quarter were $7.7 million compared with $9 million in the prior year and $30.1 million on a fiscal year-to-date basis compared with $26.5 million in the prior year.
The fiscal year-to-date increase of $3.6 million was primarily due to an increase in construction costs related to the contracts signed in fiscal '17, along with contracts renewed and, of course, the inclusion of MBS.
Currently, our BNC store count is 782, having opened 6 new stores and closing 1 in the quarter.
We plan on opening another store in fiscal '18 based upon the contracts signed to date, with an additional $2 million of annualized estimated sales, bringing the BNC 2018 total annualized new business sales to $63 million.
Our MBS Direct store count is 698, having signed 19 and closed 33 contracts during the fiscal 2018 year-to-date.
Turning to our fiscal 2018 outlook.
For fiscal '18, we continue to expect sales at BNC to be relatively flat, while comparable store sales are now projected to decline in the mid-single-digit percentage point range year-over-year.
We continue to expect consolidated sales to be in the range of $2.25 billion to $2.35 billion before intercompany eliminations.
We are raising our consolidated adjusted EBITDA guidance and now expect to achieve consolidated adjusted EBITDA of $115 million to $125 million, up from the previous range of $105 million to $120 million.
Capital expenditures are now projected to be approximately $45 million, down from the prior guidance of $50 million, an overall increase from fiscal year 2017 due to the new store growth.
With that, we will open the call for questions.
Operator, please provide the instructions for those interested in asking a question.
Thank you, <UNK>, this is <UNK>.
The overall margin rate at BNC is up versus last year.
Large contributor of that is Student -- the acquisition of Student Brands and the high margin products that they contribute to the company as well as all of our service revenue, which includes the partnership marketing, LoudCloud and Promoversity, which allow us to increase our revenue and has the high margin rates.
And we're able to generate that business, both within our footprint and outside of our footprint, as we leverage all the relationships that we have across the entire company.
Hey, <UNK>, it's Mike <UNK>.
I -- the only thing I would to add to that is that we would expect to have probably more transparency in the next fiscal year about the various businesses, which I think you'd be able to see how margins are shaking out.
We don't want -- really want to speculate on what's going to happen with the margin within BNC once you separate out -- if we separate out Student Brands, for example, or -- to the digital services.
But as <UNK> said, there are other services like the co-branded partnerships and marketing partnerships, et cetera, that are bringing in higher revenue.
The other thing I think that's important to realize based on what we said today is that, for example, First Day, to the extent that First Day achieves penetration with digital Courseware, we expect much higher sell-through with First Day than we do with traditional physical book penetration.
So for example, if 100 students come in, and we don't disclose penetration, let's say, we only sell to 40 of them, we have a 40% penetration, we would expect with -- the First Day products, digital products to have penetrations over 90%.
So how those margins shake out in terms of the margin sharing with the publishers and how we cut our rental deals with the school -- is it the same rent that we're paying.
Or is it -- we don't know the answers to all that yet.
But we're obviously going to do our best to drive margins higher through higher volumes in digital products as well as through negotiating and renegotiating the deals we have in place today.
Hi, Greg, this is <UNK> <UNK>.
It's really a combination of what you just said.
We have seen the average selling price move down this quarter, again, over the same period last year.
So that's driving it down.
But it's also the growth of the digital products, that students are starting to migrate there more often.
And we did see a significant uptick of our First Day programs that we ran year-over-year.
So all that together is a bit of an effect.
If it is a First Day inclusive model, that does eat in to the rental business because those are for sale and not for rental.
We're seeing both at the same time, Greg.
We're seeing universities expand the number of courses.
In fact, yesterday, we had a meeting at Wright State University that announced that they were expanding it to us and adding more sections, as well as growing the number of schools that are going to participate for the first time.
And this is an area where we work in partnership with our publishing partners as they promote the program as well as ourselves.
So it's really a very good program, and one that we are very optimistic about in the future.
It's rather broad based.
We have private schools, they're participating.
But it's not only the price savings.
That is a big piece of it; but it also is proven to improve outcomes of students.
And that's the big driver of this: improving the outcomes of the students because they have the product.
Everybody has it, the First Day; as Mike said, it's over an 80% -- 90% participation rate in the program.
And that's a big driver of this.
It's all about improving the outcomes.
Yes, one of other thing, Greg, is that -- Greg, one other thing is that having an inclusive access model, and as <UNK> said, having all the digital material available to First Day to everybody, from a publisher perspective, is a really good thing.
So the publishers -- and we are very aligned on this -- it doesn't make any sense to try to counterfeit, copy, unauthorized copies or share the content as is done with physical.
That's been pretty widely publicized in the last year.
If you have it all in First Day, it's included in your Courseware fee, in your tuition.
So that equates to higher sell-through but it also -- it involves a lot more -- or a sense, a lot more cooperation between us and the publishers; and presenting something that's lower cost, but also doesn't have the risk associated with it that most content does of having it duplicated on an unauthorized basis.
Thank you all for joining us on today's call.
Please note that our next scheduled financial release will be our 2018 fiscal fourth quarter earnings on or about June 26.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
