<UNK>, this is <UNK> <UNK>.
I'll take those questions in order.
First of all, the recovery of the $13 million, we'll see an increase in revenue for that amount, and you'll see an offsetting increase in expense or amortization.
We'll report it as an operating expense as we amortize the deferred balance.
So the net-net, it will be a positive cash flow perspective but net zero from an income or net income perspective.
Now, we're collecting the $13 million, which has been authorized.
This is not something that's subject to refunds.
This is something that we're collecting, amortizing those balances.
Any adjustments to collections of deferred balances would be done on a prospective basis as we go through each calendar year.
Once it gets put into the PGA, we're collecting it.
Those are dollars that have been approved for collection by the Commission and there's no second look at it.
Right.
Yes, I think maybe a couple of things to be helpful here.
Gill Ranch, we had about $1.8 million recorded last year on the storage segment which increased Gill Ranch's O&M, which we wouldn't expect to be repeated this year, or as something that would be recurring.
As we think about O&M more generally, we have implemented cost control to try to offset some of the impact of weather and the write-off, frankly, coming off 2014, which was actually a pretty, we had a pretty low level of O&M expense that year based on FTEs and so forth.
So we're coming off a pretty low base.
From a budgeting perspective we actually expected to be up fairly significantly year-over-year, in the 7% area.
And the fact that we have held it to relatively close to flat year-over-year is acknowledgment of the efforts that we've taken this year, which are probably not sustainable next year.
At some point we have to have, we have to adjust staffing.
We have to reflect increases in costs that are baked into third party expenditures and other things.
So I would say if you look at our, if you look year-over-year, if you take our O&M of 121 that's reported year-to-date, and we adjust out of that the about $16 million in the write-off, the environmental write-off and other adjustments, and then if we look at some of the baked-in increases that we had to offset, which included the bargaining unit, labor increases, and compensation increases, again we have kept that flat relative to last year.
So that, in total, that gets you somewhere in the $4 million plus area in terms of savings that we have been able to achieve, which are baked into our forecast numbers.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Okay, doesn't seem to be any additional questions.
I want to end by thanking you all again for joining us this morning and for your interest in our company.
We appreciate it.
Take care.
Thank you.
