Morning, <UNK>.
I think initially more from the domestic side just because that's its brand and its customer base does there.
I think if we give a range, there's a number of things that (inaudible) today [that we are tendering or converting one] contract mechanism to another so really it relates to timing.
And I think the opportunity that affords Wyle at the moment is to press on and not get distracted and make sure it delivers these in a timely fashion and that will push the numbers up to the higher end of that range.
Yes.
The project is -- I'll answer the second one first, if you don't mind.
The ammonia project is at the final close of commissioning and performance testing that the expectation is that will be, that the project we finished early in Q3.
So that's very near the end is answer to the question, thankfully.
And then I guess, in terms of the other piece of the question, <UNK>'s probably better placed to answer that.
It is not a profitable job now.
Good morning.
Well, we really can't comment more than we have about opportunities on M&A until we actually have a transaction.
What we can say is you need to have multiple opportunities and multiple targets for you to get one over the goal line into the end zone.
We are looking at opportunities across a number of those target areas, as <UNK> said, very focused technology and technology doesn't have to be an acquisition.
It can be a partnership, an alliance agreement in licensing of technology so there are multiple angles to attack technology.
On the high-end government services and the turnaround maintenance, et cetera, we have a number of opportunities that we're considering, but as you know, <UNK>, until you get one closed, you can't predict what it's going to be.
And then obviously, each one of them has got its own characteristics.
We really like much more the revenue, the strategic opportunities rather than doing an acquisition focused primarily on cost reduction.
I think pretty much to plan.
As we said, there's not a lot of overlap and that was on of the big attractions for us in this acquisition.
So it makes the integration that much easier.
So far, so good.
Very much according to plan, no surprises.
We're still looking at that.
That's more of a longer-term project.
As a matter of fact, one of the things we are looking about -- does it make sense for us to transition our government services activity to their platform.
So, as we said, they were a standalone company.
They've got their own system, so that's not an immediate decision that needs to be taken, but it is something we are looking at going, frankly, the other way, since they have more customized systems for government activity.
So that is an opportunity for us maybe to move our historic government activities to their platform.
Well, <UNK>, as we said at the end of the first quarter that we would be relatively flat for the balance of the year.
So down a bit for the year, because the first quarter was negative and that holds pretty much true as of today.
Obviously excluding the acquisition and the use of $200 million for Wyle and it also would exclude if we were able to close on any additional acquisitions between now and year-end.
It should be better.
We get these, the power project behind us and the ammonia project will be behind us, so clearly, cash flow should improve.
Thank you very much for taking the time to listen in.
We appreciate it and I'm sure there will be lots of follow-up calls.
As I say, a solid quarter from an earnings perspective and hopefully, we've given you more color into 2017 earnings.
So thank you again and I look forward to talking to some of you individually during the course of the next day or weeks ahead.
Thank you very much.
