Good morning, <UNK>.
We haven't really disclosed that, but typically that's going to be -- let's see, at this point in the year, two-thirds to three-quarters, I would suppose.
Yes, I think the majority of what's been in backlog up until what we just recently booked, we've got four- to six-month cycle times typically.
Obviously when some of the projects -- as we've talked about, a lot been around for quite a while.
Fortunately that stuff's clearing, and we anticipate it will continue to clear in the third quarter.
Then they'll be in their normal cycle, which is more like 6 to 12 months.
We're -- I'd have to say most of our business units on the electrical side would probably say they have their backlog in hand that they need to achieve their forecast for the year.
There's backlog there.
As <UNK> alluded to, we booked some of that in the second quarter for the third quarter, for our third quarter fall outage season.
We will -- we're quoting stuff now for what will be our fourth quarter as we get into after the first of the year.
We're quoting that stuff now, but not booking those things yet.
We'll book that in the third quarter.
Yes, they've got the backlog pretty much that they need for the third quarter.
Then as we've talked about, a lot of what happens to them is they go in, it's a $2-million job, and by the time they're done it's a $4-million or $5-million job once they're on site.
We're very comfortable with the backlog they've got for the third quarter.
Sorry, <UNK>, we don't get down to that level in terms of calling it -- that goes to margin -- sorry, at that level.
But it is improved.
Yes, that's fair.
We're seeing a little bit of --
Yes, they had some organic growth.
It wasn't all from the acquisitions, because we didn't have the full quarter for the acquisitions.
They've got some organic growth in there.
I think our focus is on that organic growth, new services, service expansion, covering more territory, new applications.
We've been investing in that.
As we've talked about, we're committed to maintaining that 24% to 26% margin profile.
Yes, it did.
We're integrating quicker than we had planned on, and driving those margins up.
There's still a drag on galvanizing's overall margins in the quarter, but we made a lot of progress and it's moving faster.
We're feeling real good about the progress to date.
First impact's going to be the -- at least the first positive impact's going to be from the improved margins in the volumes from the US Galv sites.
Like we said, we'll get those up pretty close to our normal run rates by the end of the year.
I think the guys are well on track to do that.
We're already seeing the benefit from that.
That's occurring now.
I'd have to say that's the first.
In terms of zinc, as we talked about, we actually in a lot of ways, because of our size and scale and our ability to drive efficiencies and productivity on zinc usage, we tend to prefer prices on zinc going up.
On the other hand, because of the volumes we can buy -- and we tend to buy forward to some extent or commit forward, not buy forward.
Yes, we're looking at next year as we get into say fourth quarter next year, benefiting from the lower zinc costs, but we're not overly excited about where it's at.
I'm sorry, the Trinity I referred to them as US Galv.
But those are the Trinity.
No, I'm sorry.
The official name of the Trinity galvanizing business was US Galvanizing.
That's my fault, didn't mean to confuse you.
That's lumpy because that tends to be the big electrical projects, our high-voltage or medium-voltage bus projects, which the one we've announced was $10 million.
That's -- you can miss it by a few days and it makes it look a little different.
There's a lot of lumpiness in that international project backlog.
Same for WSI.
When they're booking international jobs, those tend to be the bigger jobs, so it changes that backlog pretty quickly.
While it's down, we're not concerned about that at all.
We see plenty of opportunities on the international side, and we have more resources in place to ensure we get those.
And the Chinese portion of the Westinghouse went in the second quarter.
Yes, that's part of it.
That was international backlog out of NLI that shipped.
Yes.
Sure.
Well, thank you, Amy.
I thank everybody for participating in today's call.
We look forward to talking to you again at the conclusion of this current quarter.
Once again, thank you and have a great day.
