No, not a guide up.
We said that, largely, all of the [$16 million] would be recovered through cost savings.
Obviously, given the first quarter, you can kind of run rate these things -- full-year savings is probably closer to the number -- you know, the full [$16 million].
But -- so it is a slight downward -- extremely slight, to the guidance to the point where it isn't having a significant impact.
But it's not -- I would not characterize it as upside.
And so I think -- off of this, I think, <UNK>, you're saying the question is -- was it in our plan.
And would have been incremental, I think is a little bit -- and we were looking at that going in.
And so, as <UNK> highlighted, the guidance holds, and we will recover as we go through the year.
So it's --
It was anticipated along with the savings at the time when we gave the original guidance.
Right.
I think for the most part it was across all regions.
As I'm going through on the aftermarket upgrades and services, I'd look at we were doing well in Asia and the Middle East, and North America.
So it was pretty much -- the upgrade market and service is doing well everywhere.
That's a fair statement.
We look at where we are and we're not seeing or anticipating any downward pressure from already --
Any further.
-- any further -- that is a good way to say it, <UNK> -- any further downward pressure from where we are.
Got it.
Well, depending upon what currency rates do, but we do not anticipate, and guidance doesn't really anticipate, any further heavy impacts to foreign exchange.
Thank you.
I will answer the second one first.
CapEx of approximately $180 million for the full year.
And what I mentioned was that in the second-half, we anticipate that the run rate will begin approaching that $100 million level.
Is that -- okay.
And I will turn it back to <UNK>.
Yes, so on initial provisioning spares in the aerospace market, we are seeing good provisioning coming from programs already launched, programs such as 787 and the like.
We also are anticipating just the beginning of some of the new narrowbodies as the fiscal year goes forward, but more of that will be in 2017.
But year-over-year, we're going to be up on provisioning sales.
Yes.
Usually we don't break it out -- all in all, I think we're looking at about -- I think it was about a 5% overall aftermarket increase.
And that's broken up between provisioning, spare parts, and repair and overhaul services.
And each are up year-over-year.
Okay.
Well, I'd like to thank all of you for joining us today, and thank you for your questions.
And hopefully, we were able to give you some clarity on our first-quarter results.
And <UNK> and I will look forward to talking with all of you in the next quarter.
Thank you.
