Of course, within there, you've got DMI and the growth that we're starting to see there come back.
So what changed to get it higher is we've been working on this.
We acknowledge that it's been a little bit frustrating a couple of quarters where we had some operational hiccups.
We think it was more us.
There's still a very strong, very solid long-term demand, obviously, for physicians and for veterinarians.
Globally, by the way, but obviously here, we're focused on United States and Canada, for the most part.
But, increasingly, we see global opportunity.
And I think it was a combination of some reorganization to better support the medical schools, in particular.
That's what more of the issue was.
The vet school was pretty steady through that little hiccup that we had.
And also, we have very strong brand reputations and we saw a real opportunity to do a better job of communicating, of taking some things that were working for a long time -- I think I mentioned the information seminars.
That's been a tried-and-true part of the DMI recruiting process for a long time.
But we were still doing it the same way we've always been doing it, yet the environment was changing around us, more social, more digital, not just radio.
Radio is still there, but you've got to supplement that, and you've got to follow up with different technologies in different ways.
So by doing that, we've improved the results.
And of course, that goes hand-in-hand with the academic results, because students see those residency match rates.
That has been very important for us.
And all of that was what was behind the May number of 11%.
We don't expect to see that as a long-term trend, because 11% is a little bit of a catch up for making up for lost time.
But we think we can still -- we're in good shape here for September, and long-term, see continued low single digit enrollment growth over the long-term.
No.
I'm saying we're still catching up for lost time here, so it could be better.
We're feeling good about September.
I'm just saying, from a long-term -- I get back to that five-year long-term average -- we think that's the more prudent way to forecast, and if we do a little bit better sometime than long-term trend, great.
I just wouldn't want to say that double-digit is a long-term trend.
There's a little bit more at AUC.
You want to comment on that, <UNK>.
That's good.
We do see increasing international opportunity, as well, for international students.
Most of our history has been US and Canada.
But we've had more and more interest from international students coming through the schools.
And I think that would probably show up a little bit more at AUC than at Ross, on the margin.
But also, at the vet school, I should hasten to add there, a lot of international interest in our vet program.
Thank you.
