On the MG&A line, <UNK>, the way to think about that, we do have incremental expense modeled in 2015 related to incentive compensation normalized, having normalized accrual rates on incentive compensation.
For the year that is a little over $20 million as a Company.
A large portion of that will be in the MG&A line as well as a slight increase in marketing spend as we dedicate more growth to digital marketing.
Hi, <UNK>, it is <UNK>.
To answer your featured question, let's start with the top piece.
And just to reiterate kind of where we went before, each and every category that we currently have we are looking at for opportunity.
There is clearly a big opportunity in tops and we need to strike a balance, which brings me to your question on the must haves.
We are looking to do a good, better, best pricing.
We like to give the consumer an opportunity to enter an opening price point for us.
So we have had very good success to that so far.
And fashion will always be a piece of our business, it's a matter of figuring out what percentage that needs to be.
Sure, I think what we said earlier was that to begin with the logo impact that we felt across the business certainly weighed on the e-com business in the fourth quarter and so did the international component of that.
We also said that we felt we left some business on the table in December in Europe where our promotional and shipping messaging was probably not as compelling as it could have been and that is something we will work to rectify as we lap that in 2015.
Yes, I mean, <UNK>, we have always said that we make decisions on buybacks quarter by quarter taking into account both liquidity and valuation.
We don't comment on the specifics of that discussion either in advance or typically after-the-fact.
So it is what it is as we go quarter by quarter through the year.
Yes, <UNK>, it really wasn't a change in the plan.
We've introduced a plan really for the first time that on an ongoing basis will provide incentives for store management based on the performance of their store, primarily measured around the sales performance of the store.
So we are doing that on a quarter-by-quarter basis as we go through 2015 which gives us the opportunity to adjust it as we need to to make sure it is being effective in achieving that objective.
But we think it is important that the store management has a stake in the performance of their store and that is essentially what we have put in place.
Thank you.
