Good morning.
Hey, <UNK>, how are you.
Yes.
That's right.
I mean, we think -- we think during the quarter cost us about $3 million is what we think weather cost us, and with those, if we had factored that in, we probably would be in that range of the 1.5%, and that's -- like we said, that's continued with our customer growth and that's the -- kind of the range that we'd expect.
I mean, at this point, I'd probably say 1.5% is looking like the current trend.
Yes, certainly that's been the trend.
For the last 10 years, our overall load growth has been closer to 3%, and we have had a period of time where it seems that the load growth, particularly at the military installations and the governmental installations in our service territory have had some energy conservation and some energy efficiency efforts been going on at the military -- at the government entities and that's kind of hampered the growth a little bit.
Well, we currently -- it's currently targeted at before the summer peak of 2016 for unit 3, and then toward the -- and then the end of the calendar year '16 for unit 4.
And that kind of meets our needs, so, that looks like that's our realistic goal and probably won't change much.
This is <UNK>, <UNK>.
Nice to hear from you.
Obviously, we're pleased now that we did file a historical test year.
I think it's always easier for a Commission to deal with something that is -- it's had a long history of dealing with.
We are hopeful that we will have a settlement in this case, but at the same time, we are also willing to litigate it all the way, if need be.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Well, yes, one component of both ends is weather.
We had an above-average July, although a slight bit below prior year, but it was an above-average July.
And August is starting off very well.
We'll likely to get to 100 degrees today, so that's hot for us in August.
So, the weather has been positive in the third quarter, and the low end of guidance, like I mentioned to <UNK>, would change -- there's a lot of factors going in there, but below-normal weather would lead us toward the lower end.
It was factored in slightly, Joe, although, of course, the six months, that was just this one month of the six months.
So, it had a factor, but not a significant factor in that.
Well, that's true --
Yes, the eastern part of Texas has been worse than -- has been a lot hotter than we have.
I think it's been close to 100 in Houston and those areas.
So, we're -- we haven't quite had that extreme temperatures, although we do have forecasted 100-plus-degree temperatures for the next few days.
Thanks.
Thanks, <UNK>.
