Well, first of all, I do think that we will have the one-time items continue into the next quarter, simply because we only had EpiWorks for two months and ANADIGICS even shorter, 15 days.
But I don't know that we will have one-time items every quarter or for many, many quarters.
That's the first thing.
The second thing is -- Fran put it very well -- we have, with both our acquisitions, an increase in our level of expenses higher than we're used to carrying.
And we've been pretty focused on earnings company for a long time.
So, while I expect that it is not an overnight sensation to figure out how to improve the operating results here, we are committed to making sure that we have the best utilization of these assets and can, to the best as possible, really see them contributing to the profile of II-VI.
Well, certainly, in this past quarter, we had quite a lot that were just the transaction costs.
But I think going forward, we do a lot of things that -- just think a lot about the whole spectrum of things that can be done, from utilizing space better to looking at the supply chain, et cetera.
So, I think it could probably run the gamut more along the operating line and precisely having to do with transaction expenses.
Yes, <UNK> -- this is <UNK>.
I would say as expected.
And we've seen a similar pattern with other acquisitions.
Customers can settle down, and the teams also are able to stay focused or regain their focus on the business.
And I'd say it's been pretty much business as usual.
Thank you.
If there are no further questions from any of you, this concludes our prepared remarks.
We -- I'll remind you that any of the answers to the questions that we've given today may have contained some forward-looking statements, which are just based on the best of our knowledge today, and for which actual results could differ.
We want to thank you all for joining us.
And, Fran, for closing comments.
Yes.
Thanks, everybody, for joining us.
And I hope you get the flavor of the project that we've undertaken with our VCSEL platform, and how we've gone about it quite aggressively to put together these pieces.
And it will take us some time to play out, but we're quite confident that we've got a good strategy.
Thanks, everybody.
All right.
Have a good day.
Bye bye.
