Yes.
It's like the $64,000 question this morning.
We do have -- I've not going to get into too much because we're right in the middle of the RFP, and that will be delivered here shortly.
Look, whenever you go to compete, you look for an opportunity to discriminate yourself from whoever it is you are competing against, and there are multiple ways of doing that.
In our particular case, we think we do it with a set of very innovative approaches to this one particular job, using commercial, well-known commercial both processes and capabilities that have not been seen inside of this space before.
And then they're arrayed against some more traditional ways of solving a very similar problem.
Look, I'm not giving you a lot because I don't intend to give you a lot on that subject.
I believe that we have a reasonable chance at that opportunity.
That's why we made the investment in talent, in the teaming that we have done, in the relationships that we have built throughout that customer community.
So we'll see what happens.
It wouldn't surprise me if we lost; but I'm not going to be greatly surprised if we win.
We understand that job very well.
We believe we understand what the customer wants.
And the second part of your question had to do with -- maybe they already cut him off.
If you want to come back on, <UNK>, I forget what the second part of your question was.
Yes, <UNK>.
Prior to this kind of adjustment when we on a quarterly basis rolled the backlog, we looked what was in our system and used that as the basis for the backlog.
Just a bottoms-up addition of tens of thousands of line items in backlog.
What we did not consider was the period of performance, and so we did not explicitly exclude items for which the period of performance has lapsed.
The change we have made and is reflective of the adjustment, quite simply is if the period of performance has lapsed there is very low probability we will realize revenue; and as a result of that we are excluding it from the backlog calculation.
Yes, the total acquisition revenue in the fourth quarter was $263 million.
And for all of FY17, we expect it to be approximately $600 million.
We attributed that to NSS.
The acquired revenue on the other acquisitions is relatively small, and so we around to $600 million.
Yes, that's still the right number.
That's still the right ballpark.
Well, thank you, Jason.
Thanks for all your help today on the call.
We would like to thank everybody who dialed in or logged on to the webcast for their participation as well.
We know that many of you will have follow-up questions throughout today or the rest of the week; and <UNK> <UNK>, <UNK> <UNK> and Dan Leckburg are available for calls later today or throughout the week.
So this concludes our call.
Thank you.
We appreciate your interest in CACI.
Have a very good day.
