<UNK>, do you want to address that.
Relative to the 700 platform, we do have a significant amount of conversation with several different parties on what to do with the 700s.
I can certainly say that there's -- as <UNK> mentioned in his comments, you may hear some noise in the next 18 months on the ongoing fleet transition.
But I can also tell you that the conversation about 700s is wide and colorful on many things that can happen with that fleet, most of which we are very comfortable with.
You know that fleet is a great airplane.
With 70 seats in that aircraft, there is a very high demand for it in the right market.
We have to look at it in light of also what's happening with several of our 50-seat expirations.
So, when we say we've got some good transitional conversations over the next 18 months, that's true.
There's a lot of good conversations and we are committed to be transparent when we have more concrete information on that type of stuff.
But we can tell you today there's a lot of conversations about our 700 fleet today.
I can't remember how many questions I heard in there, but maybe we first and foremost start about the cost conversation that you had relative to the retiring fleet.
I think that, admittedly, today, we have built an infrastructure to return aircraft.
And ironically there's some of that that's also -- I mean when you are taking new aircraft, you build an infrastructure to bring in new aircraft and you also have an infrastructure to retire aircraft.
We have a couple of infrastructures built relative to that.
From a cost perspective, as we said, we're going to have cost of fleet transition throughout the rest of this year.
If you look at what's going on out throughout the rest of 2015 relative to cost and expectations of this fleet transition, I would say that we've always shied away from giving direct guidance but, in Q2, we expect to carry some good momentum like we did in Q1 relative to our expectation.
And I think we said on a previous quarter we have a lot of aircraft still coming out in the last half of 2015 and we expect the results to mirror that, maybe slightly better than 2014 but very close to that.
2016, we would expect to get some cost efficiencies on the ExpressJet side of those retirements.
And, you know, we've got to see what happens as we continue to have these conversations with the 700s.
Now I'm going to come back to you <UNK>, because I think you asked a couple of things that we probably haven't addressed in that part of my response.
What was your other question.
Yes, so I think that, in some respects, we may have to probably admit that we've digested the impact of 117 in most of our models today.
And I think that we've certainly integrated that with our partners in some of the contract that we've had conversations with.
Other pilot costs we are experiencing today, we obviously have high training costs.
We're still growing on the SkyWest Airlines side.
There's a lot of training going on today getting ready for the heavy summer schedule.
ExpressJet is also in hiring mode right now, and so there's some training costs associated with that.
But those training costs on the ExpressJet side are pretty much mostly normal course of attrition type of stuff.
And we've kind of accepted these costs and as we look forward in our models in the future, we are just going to have to digest the fact that we've got to integrate some of these costs into our contract models and move forward.
<UNK>, right now, our models when you take a look at our fleet, our opportunities, our bids, and our attrition numbers, we feel comfortable throughout 2015.
In our opening comments, when we get to 2016, a lot of the hiring we are doing today is for 2016, but part of what we find is one of our responsibilities as we manage our relationship with partners is make sure we deliver within the parameters of what we committed to.
And all of our models today are demonstrating that we are very comfortable through the rest of 2015.
In 2016, you know, in this industry with pilots and depending upon how many pilots the majors hire, we're going to have to continue to approach it with our partners on a very, very proactive basis and continue to monitor.
But over the next nine months, it looks like our models are matched up very well.
I'm going to trend that over to <UNK> and let him approach that one.
I'm sorry.
So at the end of March, we had 56, and nine of those were Brazilians, so after we retire the last Brazilians in May, it will probably be around 45-ish 200s on an ongoing basis in our prorate operation.
Yes, well, Q1 is always a hard gauge.
I think fuel certainly is something that can help us out with that.
And this fleet we have with three different carriers and we are optimistic of what's going to happen this year.
Q1 was okay I'd say.
On the ExpressJet side.
You know, we are optimistic on the ExpressJet side if we can get and integration within that group.
We continue to have good evolutionary conversations.
I think that, at the end of the day, what we've seen from the entity over the last nine months is outstanding on the performance side.
They continue to deliver exactly what we need.
There's improvements on the financial side.
And it's our intent to continue to work with both groups.
They represent fantastic individuals and we want to continue to be very transparent with them in what we think the world looks like going forward.
And we are optimistic about that, that we can do something here in the near-term on that.
This is <UNK> from ExpressJet.
Yes, the Dulles wind down went very well in March and we didn't have any issues there.
Also, our partners are also -- with our fleet reduction and consolidation, we are pulling out of Denver on our United operation and also announced a few other locations that we are consolidating in our network.
So, it's going very well at this point.
Yes, they were retired.
Thank you Travis.
Again, we appreciate your interest in SkyWest.
Again, we are very pleased with the momentum that we have today.
And hopefully, we've communicated a very clear strategy of what we want to do on a go-forward basis to continue to add shareholder value.
And again, we are very appreciative of the efforts of over 20,000 aviation professionals that we believe are the best in the industry and continue to deliver just an outstanding product to help do the things we need to with our partners and our shareholders.
So, at this time, we'll end the call.
Thank you.
