Thank you, Skylar.
Good afternoon, and thank you, for joining us on our Q1 2018 conference call.
With me on today's call is our Chairman and CEO, <UNK> <UNK>.
Our President, Dave Roberts, is traveling overseas on business and will not be on the phone call.
Before we begin, I will read our Safe Harbor statement.
Today, we will make some forward-looking statements, the accuracy of which is subject to risks and uncertainties.
Wherever possible, we will try to identify those forward-looking statements by using words such as believe, expect, anticipate, pursue, forecast and similar expressions.
Our forward-looking statements are based on our estimates and assumptions as of today, April 25, 2018 and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates or views on any subsequent date.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information and the risk factors in our most recent 10-K and subsequent SEC filings, including disclosure of the factors that could cause results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During this call, we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures, which include organic sales and growth numbers.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures discussed in this call is contained in the associated press release and is available in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.lemaitre.com.
I'll now turn the call over to <UNK> <UNK>.
Thanks, JJ.
The highlight of Q1 was the increasing acceptance by the North American sales force of the RestoreFlow acquisition.
Allograft sales hit a record in Q1, up 48% over the prior year, and we see more growth ahead.
These clot-preserve saphenous veins are a close substitute to the in situ saphenous veins prepared by the <UNK> Valvulotome.
These 2 products really are two peas in a pod.
Now I'd like to remind you of several initiatives we've recently undertaken to more tightly focus our company on vascular surgery and in particular, our higher-margin and biologic product lines.
The recent Reddick divestiture was a pruning of the portfolio, eliminating our 2 nonvascular product lines.
This $7.4 million divestiture also expands our war chest beyond the $45 million of cash on the March 31 balance sheet.
In the past, we've used our cash to acquire companies and pay dividends.
This remains our intention.
Also, coming into the year, we modified our sales commission plan and our intracompany price list to further incentivize our sales reps towards higher margin devices.
Specifically, we found in Europe, our grafts and catheters were sometimes being sold below cost.
This has been fixed.
In China, we've also made changes recently.
In Q1, we cut out a lay of our -- we cut out a layer of master importers in order to sell the hospitals through just a single layer of distributors.
At the same time, we continue to see ample virgin territory for our sales force and have begun to ramp up hiring.
We added 4 sales reps in Q1, exiting the quarter with 94 on the payroll, and we now plan to accelerate to approximately 98 to 105 by year-end.
This state of hiring is generally in North America and Europe.
And to help manage European growth, we were excited to welcome our new President of Europe, Frank Guenther, on March 1.
Before turning the call over to JJ, I'd like to remind everyone of our financial goals.
We aspire to 10% annual reported sales growth and 20% annual operating income growth.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Our Q1 2018 gross margin was 71.1% versus 71.9% in Q1 2017.
The decrease was driven largely by manufacturing inefficiencies and increased RestoreFlow sales, which were partially offset by the effects of the weakening dollar.
Operating expenses in Q1 2018 were $13.6 million, up only 3% versus the prior-year period.
This cost control allowed us to post Q1 2018 operating income of $4.9 million, up 16% versus the prior year and representing a 19% operating margin.
Our effective tax rate in Q1 2018 was 22%.
As lower U.S. tax rates, stock option exercises and Australian NOLs drove the rate down, we expect our full year 2018 effective tax rate to be approximately 25%.
We finished Q1 2018 with a record $45.4 million in cash, an increase of $3.7 million from Q4 2017.
Cash increases in the quarter were driven by cash from operations of $3.8 million and stock option exercises of approximately $300,000.
The Reddick divestiture added another $7.4 million to cash in April.
Turning to guidance.
We expect Q2 2018 sales to be $26.6 million to $27.4 million, a reported and organic increase of 5% at the midpoint.
We also expect a gross margin of 69% in the quarter and operating income of $11.1 million to $11.7 million, growth of 106% at the midpoint.
We are also guiding EPS of $0.41 to $0.43, growth of 83% at the midpoint.
Included in our operating income guidance is an estimated $5.8 million gain from the Reddick divestiture.
This amount may change as the accounting settles.
For the full year 2018, we have updated our sales guidance to $106 million to $109 million, a reported growth rate of 7% at the midpoint and an organic growth rate of 6%.
Our full year gross margin guidance is 71%, and our operating income guidance is $27.9 million to $30 million, growth of 37% at the midpoint.
Our annual EPS guidance is $1.05 to $1.13 per share, growth of 27% at the midpoint.
With that, I will turn the call over back to Skylar for questions.
Sure.
I appreciate that.
Yes, so we're $300,000 off our midpoint of guidance, making just barely our bottom end of the range.
I would say the big issues here, which we probably didn't understand as well, going into quarters we should have, was we ran a fairly good-sized contest in Q4, and maybe that pulled some of the revenues out of Q1 and into Q4.
As it relates to, you mentioned China, China continues to be sort of a bad guy here in terms of what's happened in the past.
Although, we feel real good about what's about to happen.
And the China issue of not having revenues effectively -- we had $27,000 of revenues.
The China issue pulled down Clips as well as TRIVEX.
So it affected those 2 product lines.
We also had, sort of, unexpected softness in Germany proper and Switzerland, both that were down, sort of, 7% and 11%, organically.
I don't think these are lingering long-term issues, but it didn't help out in the quarter.
Yes, so the growth for the full year, we started off with the Q1 number where we're at.
So that puts us a little bit behind the 8 ball, right.
And so then for Q2, we're coming out with 5% growth.
So H1s definitely sort of a little bit of challenge for us, Drew, but then I think we see some pretty good recovery in H2.
We've got some easier comps going on in H2.
I bet China starts to recover more robustly in H2.
That Germany topic that <UNK> was just talking about, that's probably going to recover in Q2 through, more robustly, in Q3 and Q4.
The divestiture of the Reddick should help, oddly, as well on the [CCC] on an organic basis because we won't have that drag-on growth that the Reddick was giving us.
And then, we're also going to hire more reps throughout the year.
And we'll probably get some surge there from the reps as we move from 94 currently to maybe the higher 90s towards 100 by the end of the year.
So all in all, I think what you're looking at generally is, sort of, H1 a little bit light and then H2.
So nice recovery, easier comps.
Good answers in China, Germany and with your sales reps.
Drew, maybe I can also take a high-level shot at that, which is the guidance has been brought down for the year by 3.35%, and the Reddick catheters sold 3.3% last year.
And so you're pointing out correctly, gosh, this is the first time we haven't had this 7%, this reported number going to meet our 10% barrier.
But I think it's pretty rare that we sell a product that big.
So -- and I'd also say, the year is long, and there's plenty of stuff to do, and the war chest is as big as it's ever been.
So maybe at some point, we add along to that.
But you don't know, and we're not predicting anything like that.
Right.
I wouldn\
Sure.
So I can tell you, headlining XenoSure up, Valvulotome is up, all 3 of XenoSure, RestoreFlow and Valvulotomes have record quarters, and their growth rates were 12%, 48% and 10%, respectively, and shunts were also strong, up 12%.
I actually am not prepared on the biologics side.
I don't know if -- JJ, you have the biologic -- full biologic thing.
I do not.
We'll get back to you on that.
Okay.
We'll get back to you on that, Drew.
Sorry about that, I should have been more prepared.
Okay.
That's a good question, <UNK>.
Thank you very much for asking.
Okay, so we mentioned in the script, Frank started March 1.
He's the replacement for Peter, who retired September 30.
So I have now given those 7 reports back over to Europe, and Frank's taking care of all that, and Frank reports to me.
We're thrilled about that.
Inside of the European portfolio, in a good way, we've also had a couple retirements, interns and things like that that have been in the coming as Peter was retiring.
So we're real excited about some of the new -- a couple of the new managers over there.
In the U.S., I'm still searching for a VP of Sales, but in the meantime, it's just fantastic to have the direct touch from me with the RSMs in the U.S. I think some of the -- and that's transition.
Your question about growing the sales force, I'm sorry, I'll answer the turnover one, that's an easy one.
For the first 4 months of the year, we've only had 2 worldwide rep voluntary resignations.
And I think, if you remember last year, we had a pretty strong year as well.
I feel as though there's something that we're doing with these comp plans that's keeping the reps around because we do know external PulmoMate, it's been a fairly high turnover environment, particularly in the U.S. And again, 2 out of 94, maybe that's 2.5% turnover, and that's dramatically lower than what we would have expected it to be.
But although that's only -- it's only 4 months, so maybe you triple that, but still a lot lower than the old days.
As far as what keeps driving us to grow the sales force, one of the things is, when you have a little bit more money to play with, which we do with the Reddick divestiture, the first thing you say is, well, what are the great opportunities that you can access.
And I would say, not having a rep in Portland and Jackson, Mississippi and a second one in Chicago, places like that, you look at these, and you're like you miss an opportunity because you're not going to sell too much to Portland vascular surgeons if you don't have the sales rep there.
So there seem to be some pretty juicy cities to fill in, and that's -- we're taking advantage of that.
Right, okay.
And so to reiterate, we had a record quarter in Q1.
We were up 10%.
It was on top of a record quarter in Q4.
It was up 24%.
Those 2 numbers, you might kind of see as recoveries to a certain extent for some rough quarters back in late '16, I think and early '17.
The Valvulotome issue, for us, was a internal quality issue, and we fixed it, and now we're running it -- complaint rates of about 15 or 20 devices a year, and last year in 2017, we logged 60 complaints from surgeons about our products.
The complaint trending and tracking process is really very serious.
And so those are hard numbers, which is, we cut the complaint rate by 75%.
And I think that's what's driving our Valvulotome business as well as the expanding sales force.
We're saying it's up 12%.
Right, okay.
So that\
Well, my long-term career plans are be to Chairman, not even a CEO, so no, I hope I don't have to keep doing this forever.
Though I will say, I got 7 fantastic regional managers, and I've turned over 2 of them since I've been in this seat, and I feel great about the 2 new ones that we put on out of the 7.
So a lot of good, I found, happens when you have the CEO, kind of, stick his hands into a business because I can make things happen fairly quickly.
A little bit of <UNK>'s questions about why the reps now is a little bit tied to that as well, which is, I'm closer to the action, I'm able to pick out quick, smart hires, whereas previously, it kind of had to go through layers to get to me.
And so no, I don't plan on staying there forever.
I've been searching for 9 months, and it just -- I don't want to delegate it to someone that we're not totally enthused about.
One of the things slowing the process down has been -- we insisted on, when we hired Frank over in Europe, that he be a Frankfurt -- a citizen of the Frankfurt area, and we're insisting here that the person be a Bostonian, if you will, or that they move to Boston.
And a lot of sales RSMs in this world want to work from their house in, for instance, San Antonio or Georgia or wherever.
They don't want to move to Boston.
And so we struggle a little bit with that.
It's a little bit unique to us that we're insisting the person be in the building and working on the operational issues.
I'd say that's been a slower down, but honestly, while it's been going on, I think we've been making amazing strides with the comp program.
I had my hands all over that comp program, turning over into the year.
And also, as I mentioned, sort of, reprofiling the RSM squad.
Yes, so China is a story that you've heard from us probably 3 or 4 quarters consecutively, and it's been a bad story.
Q3, Q4, and Q1, effectively no revenues, I think, maybe $25,000 in 1 or 2 of those quarters.
As we shut down our old distributor who was missing targets, and we, sort of, at the end, they had such a tough contract, they had to hit such targets, we finally said -- and it was in the contract, we can leave you when we want.
We sent them a letter to cure in January.
They couldn't cure.
We terminated them officially in March.
And now -- that's a TRIVEX master distributor.
They were also selling through a layer of sub-distributors throughout Europe -- excuse me, throughout China.
We're now getting our own set of sub-distributors, and we're starting to sell through.
So whereas China has been a bad topic for 3 straight quarters, it's about to start becoming a good topic after Q4 is over.
We have a tough Chinese comp next quarter.
But in Q3 and beyond, we have effectively zero comps.
And it feels to me like it's going to start being a $200,000 a quarter business because of our ability to sell TRIVEX at the higher -- close to the retail price to our group of subdistributors rather than us selling it to the master importer, who then sells it down to their distributors and then to the hospital.
Of course.
So to your first question, we grew organically 3% and reported 8%.
So 5% of the growth is FX, 3% is price and 0% is unit.
And usually, as you know, when we have a normal quarter, sort of, 50-50 unit and price and FX doesn't really matter, usually.
But this very different quarter.
As for where the reps are, right now, at the end of Q1, 47 in the Americas, 37 in Europe and 10 in Asia Pac Rim should give you 94.
Of course, that will be great.
And so one thing to know about all this all the time is that our reps around the world are all compensated on gross profit dollars and the growth thereof.
So knowing that, one of the things we have done to try to get sales for our AlboGraft and also our Single lumen catheters, we have been trying to get volume there to feed our factory.
And so 5 years ago or so, the Head of Europe has said, "Let\
Yes.
So Joe, we spent about $5 million last year, as you know, building out 2 clean rooms.
One, essentially, a biologics dedicated clean room and then we expanded part of our main clean room.
That's probably an immediate headwind on the gross margin by 0.5% or so.
But I think there's improved processes as a result of the more efficient layout.
So you just -- you're laying out people better, you're moving fluids and products better from one location to another.
Just general improvements in process in a lot of areas.
That takes a little time, I think, to come through, Joe, but probably not that much time.
So maybe in the latter half of this year, maybe that biologics clean room starts to, sort of, combat that increase in the depreciation cost from the build out.
So you'll probably see that pretty quickly.
And then, in the main clean room, maybe a little bit longer than that.
So you should see some improvements underneath that, sort of, fixed cost bad guy that's coming at you from the build outs over the next few quarters.
