Obviously, the Remy performance second versus first quarter has improved almost 100 basis points, which is, quite frankly, was what we expected given the synergies we talked about when we did the acquisition.
Long story short, what I would say, <UNK>, we are pretty much on track on executing those synergies right now.
I would say, <UNK>, really no meaningful change.
I mean, not to belabor it, but price and environment is always competitive.
It's tough.
But we are not seeing any movement there.
I think I alluded earlier, <UNK>, and maybe you were not on -- in terms of quoting activity, we are not seeing that tail off or anything like that.
R&D reviews, technology programs, advanced engineering programs, all pretty much continuing on as is, so to speak.
Yes, we are not seeing any meaningful shift, to your question.
Thanks.
I will take M&A pipeline first, if you wish, and then <UNK> can make some comments relative to the stock buyback program.
M&A -- we talked about in recent calls, our primary focus is to do successful integration of Remy.
That is our priority one, and I think you heard from <UNK> and myself that that's playing out well and as expected, so that is moving along well.
We remain active and very interested in additional M&A activities.
I have alluded in earlier calls that our primary focus is around electronics, software power electronics type plays, and we have a number of things moving forward in that space.
Other areas of interest as we have talked in prior calls around valve train and we have also talked about boosting our thermal management capabilities.
We remain active, and if a deal is there for us, we would move forward.
Again, priority one is successful integration of Remy.
Relative to buybacks, <UNK> can give a quick --
Yes, buybacks, real quick -- our guidance for the year was $200 million to $300 million.
If you took a look at our year to date, which is about $180 million, obviously I would say we are to the high end of our guidance range right now where we are trending, in short.
All right, <UNK>.
I would like to thank you all again for joining us.
We expect to file our 10-Q before the end of the day, which will provide details of our results.
If you have any follow-up questions about our earnings release, the matters discussed during this call, or our 10-Q, please direct them to me.
<UNK>ty, please close out the call.
