Sure.
<UNK> do you want to.
Sure, that as we mentioned last quarter the West Coast ports have been a very challenging situation for us.
The team here has done a great job in terms of working together to mitigate the issues there.
Having said that we have had negative impact on our in-stock particularly for our direct import items but we've also seen some hits to our fill rates from vendors and that has led to lower in-stock than we would like to see.
So our inventory probably is a little lower than we would like it to be given where it's at but that inventory is coming and it's recovering as the port has gotten a lot better.
Do you want me to quantify this for you.
The impact to in-stocks was about 20 basis points.
And it's very hard to measure sales impact because what our store associates do and they do a beautiful job of this, if you come into the store and you can't find what you're looking for our store associate is going to take you something out there.
Our best thinking is 60 million-ish.
It's weather.
Plain and simple.
You know if you look at the areas in New England very, very late start to the spring selling season.
We have 178 stores in the state of Texas.
We've seen no visible impact whatsoever in that state at this point.
Matter of fact all our major markets in that state posted mid-single-digit comps.
It's something that we're keeping our eyes on very closely and we'll adjust accordingly if need be but have not seen it at this point.
We don't break out comp guidance by US versus total, so no.
We want to do this the right way.
We don't want to do it by going out of stock.
This year in fact our targeted turns are 4.8 times.
You will recall a few years ago we thought we would get to 5 times by the end of this year.
We're not going to get there because we want to do with the right way.
The good news is that we've got a number of initiatives underway that once they are fully employed I think the 5 times turn will be something considerably higher.
Now that won't be in 2015 but there's more to come on the inventory story at the Home Depot.
On inventory.
You mean on the inventory turns within categories.
Yes I think when we actually go through our product line review process this is something that we incorporate into those review.
So the merchants are looking at not only how they can drive more top-line sales and productivity out of the product categories as well but they are looking at how they optimize inventory productivity and first and foremost in-stock within that.
So we've seen improvement in categories that we've actually run through our model.
The ticket we called out was a total Company ticket.
FX impacted ticket by $0.58 year on year so that's a pretty big drag.
Yes.
It's the impact of our garden business being more normal than what it was a year ago.
We're not in most cases we're still operating a single shift if you will through our distribution network.
So we have the ability to add a lot of capacity through the asset base we own.
Yes, it's <UNK> <UNK> here.
We don't have any development plans right now on further distribution centers for the core side of the business.
We have been of course improving our direct fulfillment capabilities and we will be bringing on the new direct fulfillment center in Troy, Ohio in the second part of this year.
Well it's very difficult for us to get a good measure on marketshare.
But if you look at the census data which is a good proxy for us the census data showed us growing our marketshare somewhere around 10 basis points to over 27%.
Not yet.
Working on it.
I would say that's a tough one to call out.
There is the theory of the case that in some cases there was a delayed spend.
Clearly during the economic downturn and people focused strictly on maintenance of their homes.
If you recall or maintenance category were strong throughout the economic downturn.
And when a home moves to a positive growth in terms of value what was once an expense now becomes potentially an investment.
It's pretty easy, if you look at your own personal balance sheet it's easy to put a value on your home.
It's easy to put a value on your stock investments or your bond investments or even just the cash that you have in the bank account.
Hard to put value on softgoods, harder to put value on other consumables.
So that could be one reason if you think about wealth creation putting money into where you want to create wealth.
We are not current on the HELOCs activity.
Can't help you there.
Audra, we have time for one more question.
<UNK>, I'm sorry, I didn't catch the first comment.
Well I don't think the general promotional activity in the marketplace in the first quarter I would say was similar.
We didn't really change our cadence, what we did and the events we did with things like the spring Black Friday.
On mix we have seen the consumers we've talked about this before where we track all sales by various price points and we saw yet another quarter of where the consumer is buying up the continuum.
And we are seeing higher comps in each price gradient as you go up the mix from OPP to good or best premium products.
On brands the consumer always is looking for value.
The right product at retail and I think we have a great mix of the right brands and our own private label product to satisfy that customers.
I would say one other comment as it relates to the mix is with much of the country seeing a much more normal kind of spring obviously just outdoor projects in general were stronger in the first quarter than they were a year ago.
No, we haven't we still don't have a specific target on a private label penetration.
We're over 15%.
And again we're letting the consumer choose the value proposition they want.
Well thank you everyone for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you at our next quarterly earnings call.
