Yes, regarding the Oxtellar bipolar.
Currently as far as the market is concerned, we estimate there is about 2 million prescriptions on oxcarbazepine that are in the psychiatry space, and we believe most of them are in bipolar.
In addition to that if you look at other antiepileptic drugs, as I mentioned, about 34% of the bipolar annual prescriptions are actually from antiepileptic drugs.
And most of those prescriptions are coming from molecules like lamotrigine, which is also a sodium channel blocker as oxcarbazepine is.
Lamotrigine is actually about 16% of these prescriptions.
So there is a huge amount of usage in bipolar that is actually coming from antiepileptic drugs such as oxcarbazepine, lamotrigine and so forth.
As far as Oxtellar XR, currently, we have very, very minimal usage in the bipolar, and the reason for that is because we don't call on psychiatrists.
All our calls are in the neurology space.
So clearly we don't call on psychiatrists because it is not in our label, and therefore if there is any usage it's just by people hearing about the availability of the product, and it's very, very small probably low single-digit in that space.
So we certainly look at this opportunity as a major growth opportunity for us.
Because currently there is barely any usage of course of Oxtellar XR in bipolar, and secondly because oxcarbazepine as I answered previously to the previous question, oxcarbazepine is known to work, at least a lot of physicians are currently using it.
If it didn't work, clearly they would be using it.
So at this point, it has been a matter for us to figure out the exact patient population.
What is it going to require from an investment point of view as far as the two phase III studies, and push forward with that.
Because the return on this investment could be huge for us.
And finally, regarding your question on capital deployment as far as corporate development.
Nothing really changed there as far as our degree and the intensity of the efforts.
So we continue to look for areas in neurology and psychiatry, in both areas, and neurology clearly to augment our capabilities that we have today, the strong footprint that we have with our salesforce in the neurology space (technical difficulty) Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR.
And clearly in the psychiatry space, as we mentioned earlier, if we can bring in an asset that is before 812 or 810 and can get us into psychiatry before that, we are interested in that as well.
So we continue to look for either products or products in late-stage testing that could have meaningful differentiation in the marketplace where we can make a big difference with these kind of products and get us into the psychiatry space early and/or expand our footprint in neurology.
Regarding the peak sales, when we always used to mention and continue to mention that we believe both products peak sales are around the $500 million or more, that always included the migraine.
Now, it remains to be seen if we can exceed our own internal expectations as far as the migraine is concerned, we are taking the launch of the migraine very seriously.
We are launching this as a new product.
We're going to continue to invest behind Trokendi XR, and we are investing heavily this year behind the launch in migraine.
So should we prove to ourselves that we can even exceed our initial expectations in migraine, clearly that $500 million peak target for both products combined would move north of that.
In addition to that, as we just talked today about the bipolar opportunity in Oxtellar XR, that could even bring us closer to the $800 million mark with both products combined if we even are successful in the bipolar space.
Which we believe we should be able, but we still have to of course do the studies, have positive studies, do the filing and get the approval and launch to that.
But the use of that molecule is well proven in that space.
So combined all of these growth initiatives and growth opportunities behind both products conceivably could approach the $750 million or $800 million.
It's not a wild guess at this point that could be achievable in the future.
Thank you.
2016 was another outstanding year for Supernus, with record financial results and significant accomplishments.
We have established a solid foundation for sustainable growth, and expect 2017 to be yet another outstanding year with strong net product sales and operating income growth.
In addition, we are very excited about the key milestones that we are looking forward to, including the launch of migraine for Trokendi XR, starting the new growth initiatives on Oxtellar XR, starting phase III testing on SPN-812 and making significant progress towards completing the phase III studies on SPN-810.
As I also mentioned earlier, we also continue to look for strategic corporate development opportunities that could further accelerate our growth in neurology and psychiatry.
Thank you, everyone, for joining us this morning, and we look forward to updating you through the year.
