Sure, thanks <UNK>.
Your math is right, it's how we're thinking about it as well.
As I mentioned, 4% to 6% organic growth for Q3, something a little bit south of that in Q4, so agree with your math.
We had mentioned earlier in the year that we expected to have a more linear year in 2015 versus 2014.
And so we're starting to see that in the second half of the year.
I would remind you that the second half versus the first half we're seeing some nice growth from a half-to-half perspective.
But if remember last year in the fourth quarter, we had a record quarter.
We had our largest quarter ever, had a number of tenders internationally that pushed out from the second and third quarter into the fourth quarter.
Had some new product launches that drove a lot of the revenue growth.
So coming off a tough comparable quarter in Q4 2014 to 2015 is what's driving that, but again I would remind you that for the full year, we are raising our organic growth rate to 6% which is right in line with the midpoint of our long-term target.
So we feel really good about it.
It's just better linearity in 2015 versus 2014.
I think <UNK>, when we take a look on the outlook, it really comes down to the investments that we've made within channel, and it comes with the new products that are coming out.
I look at it and say -- our shoulder continued to accelerate, our skin portfolio beginning to accelerate.
The synergies that we believe we're going to see and selling opportunities between TEI and the Integra portfolio.
Just like we saw with DuraSeal and DuraGen.
A lot of the DuraGen growth is driven by having a good discussion with the DuraSeal user that may not be using DuraGen, and that's created some interesting growth.
Our confidence that we can continue to grow in that range I believe is quite high associated with the things we have been doing, increased channel focus and new products.
And I would just comment -- go ahead <UNK>.
Q4 was an abnormality and if you remember back we had our Q3 -- last year our Q3 was down, it was a little bit lighter than we had expected, there were some big tenders.
And it really did all push within again, as <UNK> said, beyond since I've been here the highest number that we've ever had within a given quarter.
So I view this as a good thing.
I view that our predictability and ability to achieve our second half, we've got good line of sight to that to what we need to do.
But again, that's a different point in our longer-term outlook to say can we grow 5% to 7%, which I feel quite strongly about based on our pipeline and our channel work that we've implemented.
I gave some highlights to it, <UNK>, but we didn't give specifics.
We announced that we've been accepted into a well-known wound journal and that hopefully here in the next few months, we will be able to give some more specifics, some of the nuances of how that plays out.
We will give obviously details of the journal and the month of publication.
And then we're hoping that we can also then give some more information of when there might actually be broader public presentation related to the data as well.
But we feel we are on track to what we communicated for.
At this point in time, my estimations are like a late Q3 window similar to what we said in the past.
Thanks.
If you were to say international as a whole is where your buildout, we're probably about halfway there.
So there's still a lot of territory to reach and to move towards.
But the areas that we have focused on such as China, some of our work that we've put into Japan.
And I would also say in Western Europe, again not traditionally viewed as a growth market but based on our share position and particular product lines, we've got lots of area to grow.
So the past few years in China is probably a very good example of where we actually changed our whole distribution structure from one common distributor to actually having a distribution partner who helps manage our logistics, to separate selling distributor entities that are flattened out, to our own commercial office and registration capabilities in China.
And then new products that have been registered that are coming out, and the result is we're starting to see some very good higher double-digit returns out of those markets.
At the same time, just to give a different view, say in Western Europe with the acquisition of MicroFrance, it gave us enough of a platform where we've never had direct precision tools and instruments capabilities to now go direct in certain markets.
And we're starting to see some of the benefits of that and the ability not only to sell the products that we acquired, but bring our legacy products into that portfolio that were never distributed there.
So I think some good progress there.
I would say in Latin America, we are just starting to get some broader traction, taking a look at how we maximize our distributor base, how we bring more products into the portfolio.
We actually have some new registrations that are beginning to hit and new things coming out.
And I think Dan and the team have done a nice job of focusing.
We really focused on key neuro surgical products such as CUSA and our DuraGen, DuraSeal portfolio.
And we haven't necessarily had the largest focus on our regenerative skin portfolio over the years.
Some of that's related to challenges with registration, but we've made some good progress there.
We put some direct capabilities in certain markets and also expanded our distributor capabilities there.
So those are the items that we put in place, and it's been a little bit lumpy over the last few years.
I we suspect that will still have a little bit of that on a go forward basis, but the trend's definitely upward and a positive direction.
Yes, so it's actually -- we are roughly about where we need to be from feet on the street now having regions of the United States.
It's a US-focused venture, so regions of the US with experienced IDN and GPO sales executives that know how to call on the executive suite, know how to negotiate and bring together a broader deal for the Company, we have the team in place now.
Last year, we had a partial team, so we have a VA DOD leader and we have leaders now that interact with all the major GPOs and our major IDNs around the country.
We have had some pretty nice wins.
It's resulted first into some different better ways to think about our GPO relationships, but I would say we're now starting to see some bigger integrated delivery network offerings.
And hopefully here over the second half we will be able to talk about some of the progress and potential successes that we've got coming there.
But we see this as a really important ongoing capability for us in a world where there's a lot of companies that are gaining scale.
Our ability to have scale and be quite relative in the businesses we play in such as skin and wound and specialty surgical and extremities, and then where a customer might want to look at a bundled offering or may want to take a look at a broader contract for a 10, 15 hospital system, we will have as good capabilities as any of the larger companies, and that's one of the goals that we laid out for ourselves.
Thank you all for attending the call and your questions today.
I would also like to take a couple of minutes to reiterate a couple points from the call.
First, with the first half of 2015 behind us, we've completed both the successful spinoff of the Spine business and the acquisition of TEI, and we are ahead of our original financial targets and on track to our key priorities.
Secondly, on a continuing operations basis that is excluding Spine, our organic growth rate has been at or above our long-term targets for three quarters now and is on track for 6% in 2015.
We expect our increase in investments in the second half of 2015 in areas such as DFU and our R&D pipeline which we believe will drive topline growth, help us achieve scale and also set us up for success in 2016.
And lastly, we're reiterating our full-year 2015 financial expectations on our base business, and have provided updated financial guidance on a continuing operations basis for 2015.
If you look, the Company is at a really important inflection point in our strategy, and we're very pleased with our progress.
Thanks again for listening, and we look forward to speaking with all of you in the near future.
Thank you, good day.
