Think I mentioned earlier about 73 million shares, just slightly above it.
You will see that when we file our Q.
Actually that will be in the schedule mentioned as the weighted average number.
We continue to implement that program.
It's a three-year program.
No update at this point.
I gave you the update during my script.
That's, basically, we're halfway through the program and have another 50 million it to go.
We made an announcement when we announced the program, which was early this year or late last year, so I don't know exactly the time frame, and since that we have bought back $50 million worth of shares.
This is an ongoing program that is going to keep going for the next $50 million that we still have.
We'll give you an update during the next earnings call for this current quarter.
That is right.
We only guide to the revenue, <UNK>.
As you know we do internal focus to maintain 45% growth margin.
So everything we do we try to actually keep it above that.
That's a great question, <UNK>.
I think the fact that we are driving off our customers' CapEx budget, you know the timing can shift.
Sometimes actual utilizations are up in the 85% they can still delay it.
So it is hard to predict and forecast when they're going to actually invest in new equipment.
Typically as a rule of thumb, if our customers' utilization is above 85%, they start to increase their CapEx, okay.
Because in the OSAT world when you run your factory at 90% you are essentially full, as you need about 10% capacity freedom to be able to move the parts within your factory to keep some flexibility.
If it's a technology move like we have seen, for instance, for copper, it's a totally different story.
Then you may see capacity or capital expenditure done in a way which is not linked to utilization or cyclicality because it's just the new technology that they want and that they will need because it's a customer requirement.
In this case you will just see that purchase of that technology be done when they need it.
So there are two scenarios.
You're welcome.
