I think the first and foremost is make sure that the overall deal economics create a lot of value for LP unit holders and the GP unit holder.
And so it comes down to the quality of the assets and the sustainability of the earnings that are in there and the required capital to maintain them.
So I think that drives 85% of it is good quality assets being dropped down.
But we do look at, because of the way the GP and LP structures work, to make sure that both LP and GP unit holders both value greatly from these transactions.
So we will look at all mechanisms to do that.
That's correct.
Thanks, <UNK>.
I was going to say something about red lines, but I better not.
Right now, <UNK>, we're absolutely committed to Vancouver Energy.
And we're very confident that the FSEC process looks at the actual permitting process in that the overall impact of what this does to the community, to the state, to the supply of this type of crude oil to the West Coast, to the improvements in lowering carbon intensity of crude oil that's produced in the United States made into products and sold on the West Coast are all positive.
We believe that when all of that is taken into consideration that there will be support, there will be very strong support for the project.
So we don't see anything at this stage that would ever tell us not to keep pursuing the project.
Unless we learn something down the road that we don't know today, there is nothing that tell us we won't continue to pursue this.
We talked about during the discussion earlier that our marketing growth year-on-year was up around 3% during Q2 versus last year.
And we said that it's continuing at that pace so far, whatever we are, five weeks into the third quarter, we are experiencing that same pace of growth.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Thank you, everyone.
The agreement between Tesoro and Tesoro Logistics to take the commodity exposure off of the NGLs is done in our refining segment.
And as we've said, it's immaterial to the Company.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Thank you, everyone.
Appreciate it.
