Hey <UNK> this is <UNK>.
There's certainly some flexibility there, not only on the capital spending side but also on our operating expenditures given where the market goes In many cases we need to make sure that we deliver for our customers and follow their production schedule but we certainly have some control over the timing that we could influence that.
Thank you
In terms of sequentially it was noticeable from the end of last year.
And it will be noticeable, but we have not given the specifics on the balance of the year.
But it will have a noticeable impact on the margin profile.
Thank you <UNK>.
Nice to talk to you again.
I am bullish.
And I tell you otherwise you know made.
I bullish now that Fords in pretty good shape, as it relates to their launch.
They put a lot of focus energy resources and other into their ability to launch of the last two or three years.
We have seen the evolution coming off Fusion -- just talk North America Fusion platforms, was a challenge they'd be the first to say two or three years ago too much better success as it relates to the F-series F-150 stock.
With a couple of snafus here and there -- okay whatever.
Nothing to substantial but they have done a lot of things right things I think to put themselves in a good position as it relates to our releases.
You understand that well in terms of what we are seeing.
They are still in line with our forecast.
I feel pretty comfortable any manufacturing Company -- you'd be the first one to say this you never know that something could come up and bite you that they certainly have pulled ahead a lot of their activities -- APQP activities and focused on their launches so I feel pretty good about it.
Not necessarily <UNK>.
We still have the ability more than sufficient liquidity to be able continue our share repurchase program.
So in the balance of the year we will continue to evaluate the market and continue to execute on that opportunistically.
Thanks <UNK>.
Let me take those.
To go back Chris you go by, Chris or <UNK>.
Thanks for the questions.
I'll try to hit all of these make sure you tell me if I miss one.
Let's go to the last one first.
On the Wrangler, I would tell you nothing is a free pass in any of our businesses so certainly the customer could've chosen to do different things.
I don't know that other dialogue with our competitors know we were in a good position to take on incremental volume.
I would call it more [fully] toward the bottom side of that -- the answer to that question.
That we fell in line.
As it relates to your CV questions as it relates to a conquest, is it captive moving to supplier.
It's a combination of all of the above.
I announced three different awards.
One being with the Isuzu /Spartan no one falls into more -- I could be an optimist -- I'm pretty sure that falls into a new platform in general.
The two that I imagine down in Brazil, one was conquest, one was captive supply moving out into the supply base, which of course is Dana.
Again thanks, Chris.
Divestitures I don't see anything imminent there.
I very much like the way Dana fits together.
I hope at the risk of not being redundant to anything I have said in the past.
We're not talking about a Company that is trying to pigeonhole bumpers with seats, with tires, with whatever.
We're very much the liner from the engine back to the rear axle and everything in between.
We see a lot of internal benefits with our customer because of that.
And of course all of our Driveline stuff goes across three of the four platforms.
I feel very good about that at least for today and anything's possible in terms of change.
But I don't have [anything] on my to do list on that one.
As it relates to the inorganic side, [when] we go there I think anybody worth their salt running a Company has to see that as one of the levers of opportunity, all depending on what it does for you strategically, the price point at which it may be.
We keep them on the radar like, hopefully, any sophisticated Company would.
Yes, the impact on the 2018 backlog is quite small.
Most of the volumes for these programs ramp up and 2019 and beyond.
So that's where we start to see the impact which is where we referenced the total program volumes rather than the backlog period we're currently measuring.
We haven't provided that but what I can tell you is the program [life] sales make up the majority of what we announced today for the program.
So we're not sure -- we can't disclose it at that point.
We have not commented on that margin profile of the business well out into the future.
I think that's it for the presentation in question a comments today.
Thank you everyone for joining the call.
Just in quick summary, to the at least the window of when I came here almost nine months now.
One of the key things many of us have talked about is about we need to get the top line headed in the right direction.
To me that's always a result of the actions.
The actions of course our customer satisfaction and being the supplier of choice and certainly I am proud of the Dana team for putting us in that position to be able to announce the things we announced today.
Certainly staying the path and doing the right thing.
I hope that comes through loud and clear very still very comfortable with where we are at for the year.
Thank you for your attendance today.
