Thank you Lori and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Loews Corporation's first-quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
A copy of our earnings press release, our earnings PowerPoint snapshot and Company overview may be found on our website loews.com.
On the call this morning we have our Chief Executive Officer <UNK> <UNK> and our Chief Financial Officer <UNK> <UNK>.
Following our prepared remarks this morning we will have a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin, however, I will remind you that this conference call might include statements that are forward-looking in nature.
Actual results achieved by the Company may differ materially from those projections made in any forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements reflect circumstances at the time they are made and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
This disclaimer is only a brief summary of the Company's statutory forward-looking statement disclaimers which is included in the Company's filings with the SEC.
During the call today we might also discuss non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our security filings for reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measures.
I will now turn the call over to Loews Chief Executive Officer, <UNK> <UNK>.
<UNK>.
Thank you <UNK>.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on our call today.
I hope that you've all had a chance to look at our press release which was distributed earlier this morning.
Loews reported income from continuing operations for the first quarter of $109 million compared to $265 million in the first quarter of 2014.
The quarter's results were significantly impacted by an impairment charge at Diamond Offshore of $158 million after-tax related to the carrying value of eight of its older drilling rigs.
<UNK> <UNK>, our CFO, will provide more details on the charge and key earnings drivers later in the call.
I want to start today by looking at Loews $5.5 billion portfolio of cash and investments.
Obviously this is a lot of cash.
But that's nothing out of the ordinary for Loews.
Over the years maintaining a sizable liquidity position has given us the freedom to deploy our capital opportunistically in order to create value for our shareholders over the long term.
We've done this by using our cash to invest in our subsidiaries, to add new businesses and to repurchase our shares.
Let's briefly examine each of these levers.
Two subsidiaries we've provided funding for over the years over the last few years have been Boardwalk and Loews Hotels.
At Boardwalk when attractive capital markets funding has not been available or when flexible forms of financing are required Loews has stepped in and provided bridge financing.
We work closely with Boardwalk's management team to hone the financing plans and our cash position enables us to utilize parent company capital in projects with attractive risk-adjusted returns for both Loews and Boardwalk.
At Loews Hotels over the past six months the parent company has invested approximately $300 million to finance hotel acquisitions.
Some of these investments have been in the form of equity bridge financing which we anticipate will be returned as Loews Hotels brings in outside equity partners.
We like this model and we intend to use it going forward to acquire additional hotels.
In addition to enabling us to invest in our subsidiaries a high level of liquidity allows us to move quickly and decisively when considering an acquisition at the holding company level.
We're actively seeking to diversify our portfolio of businesses but we don't want to rush into a deal simply because we have the funds available.
Current valuations for companies and assets don't lend themselves to the kind of equity returns we want.
We're looking for the right deals at the right price, either a company with good cash-on-cash returns and strong secular growth trends or distressed undervalued assets at an advantageous entry point in the cycle.
And finally let's not forget about share repurchases which remain an important way that Loews creates value for shareholders.
On our call last November I discussed in detail the various metrics we use when considering share repurchases decisions including the sum of the parts calculation.
Over the last year Loews spent almost $700 million of its cash buying back almost 16 million shares.
As we've said before money doesn't burn a hole in our pockets.
While we acknowledge that cash can be a drag on Loews' short-term returns we feel that having the flexibility to be opportunistic and not rely on financing markets has served our shareholders very well over the long term.
Now let's look at some highlights from our subsidiaries.
Let's start with Diamond Offshore.
Loews has been in the offshore drilling business for more than 25 years.
In that time we've learned one thing with absolute certainty, offshore drilling is a cyclical business and therefore Diamond is managed accordingly.
Nine years ago when others were paying top dollar for new drilling rigs Diamond began returning capital to shareholders by paying special dividends.
Since January 2006 Diamond has paid over $41 per share in regular and special dividends returning more than $5.7 billion to shareholders over that time.
As the current cyclical downturn accelerated, however, Diamond decided not to pay a special dividend.
Instead the Company elected to retain cash in order to maintain Diamond's financial strength and to position the Company to be ready to act if rig acquisition opportunities presented themselves.
While Diamond has been able to secure long-term contracts for its newest deepwater rigs prospects have been far more challenging for its midwater fleet.
Diamond expects newer rigs to continue to compete aggressively against lower spec units.
As a result of the increased competition and dramatically reduced rig chartering opportunities for midwater rigs this quarter Diamond decided to cold stack or scrap eight of those rigs that have no foreseeable employment prospects.
We have no doubt that Diamond will withstand the cyclical downturn and we hope and expect that the Company will emerge having found opportunities to acquire good assets at attractive prices.
But as of today we're not aware of any distressed assets available-for-sale at prices even close to a price we'd be willing to pay.
Hopefully that situation will change in the next several quarters and when it does Diamond will be ready.
Now let's turn to CNA.
The Company had a good quarter producing an 18% year-over-year jump in net operating income.
The results were helped by lower catastrophe losses and strong investment income from limited partnerships.
More importantly management continues to focus on margin improvement in its core P&C business.
While there's more work to be done we're pleased with CNA's steady progress.
For the coming year CNA will be operating in a market where rate increases are likely to be relatively modest and investment income will be constrained by the low interest rate environment.
CNA will remain focused on improving its underwriting capabilities in its commercial segment, maintaining its leadership position in its specialty segment and prudently managing its long-term care book of business.
At Boardwalk over the last 15 months the Company has secured an extraordinary $1.6 billion in organic capital projects.
These projects are backed by long-term agreements that are expected to generate double-digit unlevered returns once completed in the next two to four years.
Since the projects will not come online immediately Boardwalk raised $116 million in equity to help fund its capital expenditures this year and to manage its leverage.
Maintaining its credit quality will be a key focus for Boardwalk during the buildout phase of these projects.
Last but not least let's turn to Loews Hotels.
The hits just keep on coming for our hotel company.
Since the beginning of the year the company opened the Loews Chicago Hotel and has completed the acquisition of the 155 room Mandarin Oriental in San Francisco which has been proudly renamed the Loews Regency San Francisco.
New additions to the hotel company continue to be well received especially our newest hotel in Orlando, the Cabana Bay Beach Resort, which has been going gangbusters since it opened a year ago in March.
If you haven't visited one of our hotels in Orlando you should.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to <UNK>.
Thank you, <UNK>, and good morning.
Loews reported income from continuing operations of $109 million, or $0.29 per share for this year's first quarter down from $265 million or $0.68 per share in the first quarter of 2014.
Diamond Offshore reported sharply lower earnings this year only partially offset by earnings improvements at CNA and Boardwalk.
As I will discuss more fully, unusual items affected earnings comparisons at both Diamond Offshore and Boardwalk.
Loews' net income which reflects the impact of a $206 million loss from discontinued operations in last year's first quarter was up year over year.
As a reminder, last year's loss from discontinued operations related primarily to the sale by CNA Financial of its life insurance subsidiary.
CNA contributed $202 million to Loews' income from continuing operations in this year's first quarter as compared to $176 million in the first quarter of 2014.
These amounts exclude after-tax realized gains of $8 million this year versus $24 million last year.
The increase in CNA's net operating income was attributable to two main factors: number one, higher net investment income driven by limited partnership investments and two, higher P&C underwriting income driven by lower catastrophe losses and improved non-cat accident year results.
During the first quarter CNA paid a $2 per share special dividend and a $0.25 per share regular quarterly dividend.
At quarter-end after the payment by CNA of over $600 million of shareholder dividend the Company's capital and liquidity positions remain rocksolid.
Diamond Offshore contributed a loss of $126 million to our first-quarter net income down from an earnings contribution of $69 million last year.
Diamond's first-quarter results include an after-tax impairment charge of $319 million of which $158 million flowed through our net income.
The charge resulted from Diamond's decision to impact eight of its lower spec rigs, seven midwater semisubmersibles and an older drillship.
Diamond announced that it plans to scrap three of the seven midwater units being impaired.
Additionally, Diamond booked a restructuring charge in this year's first quarter that reduced Loews net income by $2.3 million.
Absent the impairment and restructuring charges Diamond's contribution to our net income declined from $69 million last year to $34 million this year.
Lower rig utilization negatively affected rig operating income.
In addition depreciation expense was up from last year because of new rigs having been placed into service.
Boardwalk Pipeline contributed $25 million to Loews' net income during Q1 2015, up from a loss of $18 million last year.
The loss last year included a $55 million after-tax charge related to the write-off of all capitalized costs associated with the former Bluegrass Project.
Absent this charge Boardwalk's contribution to our earnings decreased primarily due to lower EBITDA and higher depreciation.
The EBITDA decline stemmed from lower revenue from transportation, park and loan and storage attributable in large part to warmer winter weather this year versus last in Boardwalk's market areas.
During the first quarter and into early April Boardwalk sold 7 million common units under its equity distribution program.
Net proceeds to Boardwalk were $116 million including the general partner contribution.
Boardwalk sold equity to manage its capital ratios during a period when it is spending capital on projects that are not yet in service and thus not producing EBITDA.
In keeping with its focus on capital management we anticipate that Boardwalk will draw down its $300 million subordinated debt facility from Loews later this year.
Loews Hotels generated net income of $5 million during the first quarter, up from $3 million last year.
Adjusted EBITDA which you can find in the earnings snapshot posted on our website was $35 million during the first quarter versus $24 million in the prior year.
The increase in adjusted EBITDA was driven by Loews Hotels properties at Universal Orlando including the Cabana Bay Beach Resort as well as improved performance at various other properties.
As <UNK> mentioned during the first four months of 2015 we invested over $300 million in Loews Hotels to finance the all-equity acquisitions of the Loews Chicago and Loews Regency San Francisco hotels.
Over time Loews Hotels will likely put leverage on these properties and may if appropriate bring in equity partners.
Turning to the parent company, after-tax investment income declined from $34 million in 2014 to $19 million in 2015 driven by reduced performance from equities partially offset by higher returns from the parent company limited partnership portfolio.
At quarter-end cash and investments totaled $5.5 billion as compared to $5.1 billion at the end of December.
Over $4 billion of our cash and investments were in treasury bills and notes and other short-term instruments which given the current interest rate environment earn us very little but provide strong liquidity.
We receive $567 million in dividends from our subsidiaries in the quarter which broke down as follows: $545 million in regular and special dividends from CNA, $9 million from Diamond and $13 million from Boardwalk.
As for returning capital to our shareholders, during the first quarter we paid $23 million in cash dividends and spent $71 million buying back 1.8 million shares of our common stock.
We also spent $24 million during the quarter, buying just over 900,000 shares of Diamond stock, taking our ownership to 53.1%.
I will now hand the call back to <UNK>.
Thank you, <UNK>.
Before we open up the call to questions let me summarize how we think about each one of our businesses.
As I said six months ago trouble is opportunity when it comes to the offshore drilling market.
The market is certainly challenged but Diamond is positioned to withstand this downturn and hopefully seize opportunities as they arise.
CNA is improving its underwriting performance and maintaining a stellar balance sheet.
Diamond is repositioning its operations to align with the evolution of the US natural gas marketplace and Loews Hotels is adding to its presence in key markets with exciting potential.
We continue our commitment to pursuing a value-oriented investment strategy and to creating a diverse portfolio of solid businesses.
As always Loews is focused on managing capital to achieve the best long-term return for our shareholders.
We found that disciplined capital management coupled with a diverse portfolio of businesses is an exceptional way to create value over time.
Now I'd like to turn the call back to <UNK>.
Thank you, <UNK>.
Lori I think we're ready to start the Q&A portion of the call.
So we have the Loews Regency in New York which is a hotel that is of a higher quality than the other Loews Hotel brands.
And when we had the opportunity to acquire the former Mandarin Oriental in San Francisco we decided that that would be a good place to extend the Loews Regency brand.
So voila you see that we now have two Loews Regency hotels.
If we have the opportunity going forward to create more Loews Regency hotels we'd certainly like to do that.
No, no.
There are no plans to upgrade any of our hotels to the Loews Regency brand.
So I think right now the conditions are bad enough for rig valuations to go down.
The problem is they haven't been bad enough for long enough.
There are people who either have rigs chartered so they are not feeling any pressure.
There are people who may have lost charters or who have rigs that are unchartered now that are feeling a lot of pressure but interest rates are low and at least for the next few months they are able to get by.
People that have rigs that are scheduled to come out of the shipyard many of them have delayed the arrival of the ships.
But there's no doubt in my mind that as the charter market remains a vast desert for these fifth and sixth generation rigs that the carrying cost of the rigs which is both the interest that they have to that owners have to pay on their that and additionally the staffing costs for these rigs which can be as much as $2 million to $3 million a month, that will start to weigh on the owners.
And at that point in the next two, three or four quarters I think we could see that some fifth- and sixth-generation rig assets become available for sale.
Or at least a number of quarters.
We own about 53% of Diamond.
Yes, we will get it for you.
It's probably 73 million -- 72.9 million.
73 --
72.9 million.
Yes.
So I don't recall the comment that I made, I'm sure that I made it.
Let me just talk about where I think the market is right now.
I think that after all these years of low interest rates and quantitative easing what we have is markets both fixed income and equity markets that are priced for perfection.
Stocks are almost at new highs, the NASDAQ reached new highs last week, the S&P is within a shot of it today as we speak.
The market multiple is I don't know 16, 17, 18 times earnings.
When you look at companies that are auctioned in the private equity world what I would say is that 10 is the new 6.
And what that means is in the old days when companies would trade at an EBITDA multiple of 6 times today that number is 10 times.
Yes interest rates are low but still it seems to me that even though you can finance at low rates there just isn't enough room for return for the equity holder at these kinds of valuations.
So my guess is that for the time being businesses look like they are priced too high for us.
Now one other thing that I always remember is that the world is cyclical and it's easy to lose sight of that because we're now in firmly in year six of an up cycle for equity prices.
But at some point in time something will happen, people will lose all the confidence that they have and my guess is that opportunities will present itself.
Like I said for offshore drilling, it could be a while and offshore drilling it's the next several quarters in the market for businesses it could be in the next several years.
But I'd rather be patient and get a good business at an attractive price rather than lose patience and buy a business at two high a price.
No, we're happy to buy businesses here that have foreign operations.
I think it's a much bigger leap to buy a business based in a foreign country.
First of all we keep score in dollars, secondly it's the foreign markets are markets that don't scare us but by the same token we're not fully familiar with the rules, regulations, customs and taxation.
And so our hunting ground is primarily in the United States.
You know, WTI is currently at about $59 a barrel.
Brent is $66 a barrel.
I think you're at the price where investment starts to make sense for offshore and onshore drilling.
But there's something else I think that has to happen in order for investment to pick up.
And that is that I think people are going to want to see how volatile prices are.
So will prices be at $59 a month from now.
Will they be at $49.
If they are at $49 and there's still a lot of volatility in the marketplace then I think you're not going to see confidence come back to the market.
On the other hand if $59 on WTI and $66 on Brent is the new normal and we'll see that over the coming few months then I think you'll start to see some glimmers of drilling.
But there's a lot of headwinds for the market.
Number one we have thousands of wells in the United States that have been drilled that have not yet been fracked.
Number two we have very high levels of oil in storage in the United States beyond the normal levels.
And so I think at that there is a distinct possibility that those headwinds can be a real hindrance to prices moving up much more from here.
Six months or so.
One other thing, one other thing.
That is there's a real distinction between drilling for oil in shale formations and drilling for it offshore.
When you drill for oil in shale it can be as little as two months between the time that you make the investment decision until the time that you start production.
So it's relatively -- and you also have a very good sense of exactly how much oil you're going to be able to produce from that shale well.
So with prices at $59 a barrel you're able to pretty effectively hedge your first several years of production which makes all the difference in terms of the economics of your well.
So remember with onshore shale production it's two months from the time you decide to drill until the time you're producing.
For offshore drilling it's two to five years from the time you decide to drill until the time that you can be producing.
So the offshore guys are much less concerned about the spot price for oil and much more concerned about what the trend is going to be.
They don't know nearly as well how much oil they are going to be able to produce from that well that they may drill in the next year and they've got to do all manner of completion so they don't know exactly when the oil is going to be produced.
So it's much more difficult for them to hedge their production than it is for the onshore shale people.
So offshore production is about 20 million barrels a day and it is a very important part of total worldwide oil production.
Shale production is probably under 5 million barrels a day, so shale production just cannot make up for the production that takes place offshore.
That's number one.
Number two, when you look at breakeven rates you see that offshore oil drilling in many theaters is very competitive with the economics of shale production.
So there's no doubt in my mind that moving forward we'll continue to see shale drilling and shale production and we'll continue to see offshore drilling and offshore production.
You know, I don't know.
All I know is that the business has been growing very rapidly recently.
We've added hotels -- we've added hotel -- we've added two hotels in Chicago, Minneapolis, Washington, DC, Boston, Orlando, Hollywood, San Francisco and there's one more on the boards for Orlando.
We've seen a significant increase in EBITDA and hopefully earnings will soon follow.
So I think you're seeing a rejuvenation of the Loews Hotels brand name and we'll just see how we're able to do going forward.
You know, you're talking about far in the future and I just don't know.
Thanks everyone.
I just wanted to remind you the replay of this call will be available on our website in approximately two hours.
That concludes today's call.
