Sorry, on the second piece adoption rate on what.
Sorry.
Oh, okay.
I think there is -- so two pieces in there.
On the dicamba side, I believe you are referring to the chemistry over-the-top label, and we -- that is work in process and we are optimistic on that one.
We put cotton in the marketplace this year because we had three herbicide tolerances there where the farmer could use two of them this year, and that is what we used to kind of set the tone on pricing.
But we feel really good with our US approach on the over-the-top for dicamba.
The other piece on Climate Pro, there's two things.
And I think it's -- I'm still in the camp that says the most important thing is to develop the robust platform for data sciences for farmers.
It's less about how much profitability we can get in the early years and how much pricing there is in the early years.
It's about getting farmers established on a platform that helps them improve the decision-making both before planting, at planting, and throughout raising the crop.
And that is going to continue to be our focus.
Obviously farmers are demonstrating they see value in it and they are paying for those services this year, and we will continue to look at the value that we bring and price into that.
But the primary focus in the next couple of years will be continuing to expand that platform.
I think that platform play data becomes the glue that holds the chemistry, the seed, and the biotech together.
We are uniquely positioned and it reminds me so much of the early days of skepticism in biotech and then skepticism on linking biotech and breeding.
And even the skepticism when we changed platforms with 2s and with SmartStax.
So we're going to have to demonstrate that.
And I would expect that in demonstrating that we can bring these technologies together we get the opportunity one more time to license that to the rest of the chemical industry.
It's more -- it's much more focused, and <UNK> mentioned -- went through some of this earlier, but it's much more on driving efficiency and the use in new technologies.
In R&D this year we quietly retooled a big piece around breeding and we think that our breeding programs will be faster or yield more and cost less.
So we actually use that as a surrogate as we look at other opportunities across the Company.
But it's the application of data science in a number of fields that we think we can streamline and get better and faster.
Thanks.
Thank you very much and thanks.
We have stayed a little bit long today so thanks for your patience and your support.
I guess in summary I would say our business and our pipeline are stronger than they have ever been and yet -- and this is classic Monsanto, we continue to challenge ourselves to advance new solutions and provide an even more robust set of tools for farmers around the globe regardless of their size.
So with the proposal that I started talking about today, our proposal to combine with Syngenta, we are looking beyond the short-term macro challenges that face agriculture to once again drive the next evolution.
Many in the industry have theorized.
There's been a lot of talk about integrated strategies, but I think, as I said earlier, there's a difference between talking and doing.
And we believe we are best positioned -- we are a strong seed footprint and our leading digital ag platform -- to make this a reality, providing us with an opportunity to be an even stronger partner to growers.
So we simply have the proven track record that demands consideration to be the partner of choice in leading this evolution.
We appreciate the continued support of the respective owners in driving that dialogue and driving that engagement.
I wanted to conclude by thanking you for joining us on the call today.
Thanks very much.
