My name is <UNK>, I'll be answering the question.
Basically, from a short-term perspective what we're going to do is to create IoT platform-based solutions.
Which means we combined our microcontrollers, our flash memory and the wireless connectivity stand alone chips into a solution which is supported with the Broadcom's WICED platform.
WICED is the software development environment that stands for Wireless Internet Connectivity of Embedded Devices.
So short-term it's very simple.
We're going to be selling all products of Cypress and we're going to use wireless connectivity as an enabler, as a catalyst in order to do this.
From a product roadmap perspective, we're looking at combining the Pesop architecture into Wi-Fi, and especially Wi-Fi and Bluetooth combos.
And we are finalizing those road maps and we expect to launch those products shortly.
Yes so the book to bill was 1.1.
Last quarter I believe it was 1.09.
So basically right in line.
But what we are seeing is with the industrially and automotive customers, they tend to book out longer, right.
So we've entered the quarter with 80% of the quarter booked, but we're also getting bookings beyond just Q3, with those types of customers.
So that's the benefit of moving into that more stable customer base, is that get better visibility into your business.
So that's part of the reason that you're seeing 3% growth versus the 7% growth.
Your second question was -- .
Yes, so you're seeing more growth in PSD and DCD, and, obviously, NPD will be relatively flat for the quarter.
But we expect, based on what we're seeing right now, is more strength in the growth businesses of PSD and DCD.
We are at 8.1 weeks.
The majority of our business has now been converted to sell-in.
There's just a little bit that's on a sell-through basis.
But most of it has already been converted.
In terms of just strength, I think you see just mix and timing for the most part.
Do you with to comment, <UNK>.
Yes, so that's probably not uncommon to see that much of it in distribution.
We do about -- 75% or 80% of our business goes through distribution.
And if you think about where the majority of our sales are, Japan is one of our biggest regions and 100% of that business goes through distribution, as well.
So, we're running roughly at about 52% utilized in Q2.
If we look forward to the end of the year, you can think about that being probably 10% or slightly higher on utilization by the time we exit the year.
So you start to get the full benefit into 2017.
But you start to -- you do start to get some of that benefit later in this year.
And just as a rule of thumb, if you think about the 10% increase in utilization across both fabs, is roughly 1% of gross margin.
So you can think about between now and then you've got about 1% increase in gross margins just from utilization improvement.
This is <UNK> again, if you look at the current revenue profile, the mix of consumer is about 60% industrial, is about 30% industrial, and automotive is about 10%.
However, the design wins that we have seeing, we are seeing the automotive percentage go up in terms of design wins, because cars are going to have Wi-Fi connectivity soon.
For example, there is RealSeat entertainment, where you have two screens in the back of the car which are actually connected to the head unit in the car.
Those are getting popular.
And we have great technology which is called RSDB, Real Simultaneous Dual Bands which means that you have multiple streams of Wi-Fi going from the rear screen into the base unit of the car.
So the Broadcom business that we bought had this product and is the first of its kind in the market.
So we are very happy to have that and we are also seeing strong design win momentum there.
Having said that, we see a lot of frenzy of activity in both the consumer and commercial IoT markets.
In the consumer markets the variable design wins are very strong, the wins in the IP camera are extremely strong as well, while in the commercial IoT market we are starting to see wins in the retail market and the asset tracking market, and then even in the agricultural market, a few of those, as we see.
So that will hopefully give you the color of what you're looking for.
So, this is <UNK> <UNK>.
It's are started to happen.
We just had a worldwide sales conference back in June, and we invited Broadcom to come there and do a lot of training.
We've already started to deploying at our salespeople are up to speed.
Our FAE's are up to speed and we are actively working designs now with the Broadcom contingent that came over.
So, thanks for joining the call today.
We are pleased to have reported results that were in line with our expectations and our guidance and we are executing well as a company.
And we continue to strengthen our position in the markets.
So, we look forward to seeing you on the road at the investor conferences.
Thanks again.
