<UNK>, the margin performance this quarter came despite warranty costs that were a headwind here.
I'm wondering if you could talk about what's been driving the higher-quality costs for you folks over the past 2 years compared to history, and over what time frame would you expect warranties to return to the low 2% range that's more typical for you folks in the past.
And sorry, <UNK>, over what time frame would you expect performance to return to more typical levels.
<UNK>, I mean, I think if you note where our working capital receivables and inventory forecasts are for the end of the year, I think it's appropriate to assume that next year is going to be up.
We don't want to get into the 2018 forecast, <UNK>.
But I think the statement that we have in terms of a shift in our thinking in terms of working capital at the end of the year should give you a good idea.
Yes.
And <UNK>, I think that's a good point.
Now if you look at broader, longer-term global demand for commodities, still going up.
And if you look at the USDA for the '17-'18 production forecast, it's lower, which means the stocks-to-use is what we're saying is likely to come down.
And the equilibrium -- all we'll say is the equilibrium is getting tighter.
Now we haven't put in our projections any disruption to the production for commodities.
But if any of those should come up, there's even further upside, you're right.
And to add to <UNK>'s point, if you look at the soybean prices, the current prices, you're right, they're down, okay, because of the additional soybean coming into the market from Brazil.
But if you look at the futures, number futures, they haven't changed much.
So that should help with what <UNK> just said.
And then if you look at the longer term, since you brought up Brazil, longer-term ag export is very critical to Brazil and for their foreign exchange.
And historically, you've seen governments, regardless of the party, support the ag sector very well.
And we will -- while there is uncertainty, we cannot say what's likely to happen.
And if you look at the past and if you look at what is good for Brazil, okay, we should -- we see them continuing to support the ag sector.
And the percentage for Q4 is closer to 16%.
If you just take the 9% for the full year, that's what it would work out there.
Okay.
Yes.
<UNK>, we are making good progress with respect to the cost reduction -- structural cost reduction goal of $500-plus million that we talked about.
Now you'll recall that when we talked about it, we said, if the investing conditions stay the same as in 2016 levels, we will aim to get over $500-plus million in structural cost reduction by the end of 2018, okay, so -- and be fully realized, end 2019.
And a couple of things I will point out.
While we are making very good progress towards the structural portion, the controllable part of cost reduction, there are some headwinds, one essentially being the material inflation.
And then there is a second one that might confuse, when you look at the total picture, which is lever pulling.
So as the volumes come up, we had pulled a lot of levers over the last 3 years, and as the volumes come up, we'll be releasing some of those.
But if you look at the underlying structural cost reduction, we are making very good progress.
And we are committed to hit the $500-plus million that we talked about.
You actually kind of just answered the question, but is there a way to parse out how much of the increase on the construction side was from some of the new products deal at CONEXPO.
You did talk about some of the smaller -- the mini class, but also there's a fair amount going on, on the production side class there as well.
And then lastly, could you mention anything about the parts commitment having any impact on the sales outlook.
<UNK>, can you talk about how you view normalized margins in Ag & Turf.
Obviously, really strong performance here towards the bottom of the cycle.
And so if you apply your normal operating leverage, that would get you to 15%, 17%-type margins at normalized volumes.
And I'm wondering, at which point do you folks start to think about, is that too high from a competitive standpoint.
How do you think about what's normalized in this cycle for you.
