If we start over in Asia, you've got a mobile first world.
So, they're already mentally there, about how mobile should work and mobile engagement.
Europe is pretty similar to the US.
And so we pretty much see if you look at it, there's an even bucket of pipeline building in each of the big regions that we have our offices in and our sales operations and partners.
So, I feel pretty good.
Right now we're very focused on the telco space and I'd like to see that we bring up some large telcos in each region around the vision within the next quarter or two.
So, that's kind of where our focus is.
But Europe is actually, I think, quite different even now in the last two years.
There's a lot more aggressive competitive behavior and companies there are being very innovative even against their US counterparts.
So, I feel very good about what I see globally right now.
Yes, it actually did play out.
We're at 57% of the number of customers as of the end of the first quarter.
So, yes, that did play out to our expectations and we stated we want to get the majority over.
And I think there was an earlier question.
Our target is to move better than 75% of our customer base over and we are working diligently in Q1 and Q2 and Q3 on the midmarkets and enterprises.
No, our goal right now is we're trying to space them out to the best of our ability in the best way we possibly can.
The only thing that would come up a little bit is Q4, when you get to that, October, late October or early November timeframe where customers want to lock things down.
So, our goal is to make as much progress as we can Q1, Q2, and Q3 knowing that that potential lockdown from our customers will happen in that late October or early November timeframe.
I think we're trying to bring as many as we can.
Obviously it's focus, right.
We know once we move everyone on LiveEngage then we have a new company in many ways.
We're very focused on accelerating that, but as to balancing bookings and stuff like that, but the focus and number one goal is to get everyone on it, because once they are on it, we know we got a very stable base, a committed customer and then they can grow into the vision.
So, if we can accelerate it, we'll put more into it.
It's just we're moving as quick as we can.
Our renewals are pretty well spaced out throughout the year but Q4 is a little bit heavier than Q3 and Q2.
So, it is a little bit of a balancing act, but as we talked about it a little bit earlier, one of the comments earlier, our goal is to migrate -- upgrade these customers, sorry, mid-contract, not to do it on a renewal date.
So, that is our goal and that's what we're focused on.
Yeah, <UNK>, that's a very good question, one we look at internally quite a bit and it's a measure, of course, we use internally.
So, as we move throughout the year and we have stated that we're going after the larger customers in Q1, Q2, and Q3, starting with midmarkets and going to the enterprises.
So, I'm not ready to give a timeframe or an actual percentage, sorry, on revenue, but obviously if you get north of that 75%, a good number of our customers, our larger customers will be in that bucket.
The second piece, and this is an important one, is if I have a financial services company, it's known as one company, maybe at a parent level.
But we might be in ten lines of business.
And our goal is to move over those lines of business onto the LiveEngage platform.
So, that may not count as a customer count but may have an impact on revenue.
So, it's an important distinction to make as we're doing our analysis and counting internally and obviously reporting to you guys externally.
But the key here in 2016 is to get as much revenue onto the LiveEngage platform as possible.
We spent 2015 moving the small business customers over, getting some learnings, understanding the product, and forming a product roadmap.
And as we into 2016, it's a focus on midmarket and enterprise customers and those customers generate obviously a decent chunk of our revenue.
.
Thank you.
