So Raj, it becomes a little bit more difficult on the RSP business because, as I talked about earlier, there's a lot of product integration that is happening.
And so, because of that product integration, we have talked about the success we are expecting in TDDI both for the March quarter and for the June quarter.
So we are seeing positive trends there.
<UNK> and I both talked about our DDIC business declining in the back half of the year, so that is the additional color.
So really is what is left over is our fingerprint business.
And our fingerprint business, at least in the March quarter we are expecting to see material improvements sequentially and we are also expecting to see improvements in our fiscal Q4.
So, that's really about the level of color I can provide at this time.
But when you take a look at our gross margin profile, our gross margin profile this -- the March quarter versus the December quarter, the reason for the uptick is because of that positive product mix related to both fingerprint and to TDDI, unfortunately offset by the weakness that we are seeing in DDIC that <UNK> talked about earlier.
I can't talk about particular customers, but if I take a look at the first half of the year versus the back half of the year, our DDIC revenues are declining quite a bit.
We are hoping that picks up again in the latter part of the calendar year, but at least for our fiscal year we are seeing that decline in DDIC second half versus first half.
But just to be really clear on the hints that we are giving here, this isn't due to the weakness of our product line or losing share or anything of that nature to somebody else.
It is our customers' forecasts that are driving this significantly lower outlook for second half of the year than previously.
<UNK>, you can probably anticipate what my answer is going to be on the question in that particular area, so we are not going to comment on rumors or market speculation.
<UNK>, we had a form of that question back in October as well, and as a public company, the answer is at the end of the day it is our job to maximize shareholder value, so we will listen to any great ideas that can do that and evaluate them appropriately.
But as a company, as you can tell, we are excited about growing Synaptics, so that continues to be job number one for myself and my team.
When you say mix, do you mean revenue mix or can you narrow it down a bit.
Between force sensing, TDDI, and fingerprint.
It is hard to -- we don't at this point split out those product lines.
It would really hard to call it split out force sensing.
As I indicated, that's a capability we are actually building into our TDDI devices, as well as our discrete touch, so those -- that will get mixed quite a bit.
In terms of overall where is TDDI going to be, we gave the market size for calendar 2016 as part of our analyst day deck.
I believe it was 60 million or 70 million units and we think we will get the lion's share of that business in calendar 2016, so that gives you a general ballpark.
On fingerprint, <UNK> talked about the great growth that we are having this quarter and how that strength continues into fiscal Q4, and we would expect to continue that to roll forward as we get these new products and additional OEMs.
But in terms of percentages, unfortunately we can't really throw something out there.
So China is a very important part of any of our plans for all of our product lines.
As I mentioned, we have some unnamed OEM design wins and clearly some of those are the Chinese OEMs.
And likewise, as I said, you'll expect to see some product announcements on fingerprint in the springtime from -- certainly from China or Asia area.
We haven't called it reset our expectations on DDIC.
I presume you are talking about discrete DDIC, and at this juncture I would say the only thought rethinking that we have done, we have some customers that are focused in that area that will continue on and there are separate forecasts around their business.
But in general, if anything right now we are more optimistic about where TDDI is going, and at some level it is certainly going to start cannibalizing the DDIC business.
And for us, for the most part, that is pretty good news because where we would see that cannibalization, frankly, we don't have a huge amount of share to start with, so that's for the most part upside for us.
And so, again, we are more encouraged about the adoption rate of TDDI than we were just three or six months ago when we first started sampling the parts, based on all the LCM design wins or momentum that you heard me mention earlier in the prepared remarks.
Yes, so probably close to $150 million of cash is in the US right now.
We didn't buy back any shares, you are quite correct, this quarter.
The Board had authorized an additional $273 million of share buybacks at the end of the prior quarter, at the end of Q1, to bring our cumulative authorization to $[1.050] billion.
And at our analyst day, we talked about a number of pillars to our capital deployment strategy, and share buybacks is one of those pillars.
As a reminder, we had purchased close to 5% of our outstanding shares back in August, and so we have got to balance all the opportunities and the pillars in front of us while we are looking at our cash deployment strategy.
So that's the reason we didn't buy back any shares in fiscal Q2.
Thank you, everyone.
It was a long call today.
We know we had a lot of news, a lot of changes in the marketplace, so thanks for everybody hanging in there, and for those that I will see in Barcelona, I look forward to being able to talk or update you on the business and our products at that time.
Otherwise, we will talk next quarter.
Thank you very much.
