Yes, sure, <UNK>, and thanks for the question.
First off, in this quarter there was some timing in the R&D spending, it was that.
We knew it was going to happen and of course that timing, that money is going to get spent -- I'm talking before the Medical Device Tax in the back half of the year, it's the timing of things like clinical trials and whatnot.
And so, but in addition, the money that is being spent on the Medical Device Tax is being spent in both segments, and it is a combination of some new things that we are doing.
But mostly, it's current strategies where we are accelerating those strategies, where we had platforms where we could push them faster.
And part of that, which is a bit new for us, is moving the informatic side of things quicker.
So you can think of major platforms going faster, and an informatics piece on top of that, both sides of the Company.
Yes, so good morning.
So if you look at the liquid cytology business in the US, as you mentioned we're really starting to see a flattening of that business.
So the interval testing, we think we're mostly through.
Outside the US, we're actually seeing strong double-digit performance.
And then the entire platform, both in the US and ex-US is being helped by the total automation we're doing across both our FocalPoint and our Totalys system, so complete control of the sample from collection through the result.
So that's driving a lot of growth, both in the US and ex-US for us.
Thanks, <UNK>.
And on Pyxis ES, so we're about 25% of our base business has been converted over to ES.
And so, we continue to see strong demand there, and we still do have certainly quite a wide runway ahead.
Okay, thanks for the question.
Okay, <UNK>.
Yes, just you're not wrong, but at this point in the year, the impact that it has is still within the range of guidance that we gave.
So we had a fairly broad range, and it's still in that range, so arguably it's the higher end of the range.
Okay, and <UNK>.
And <UNK>, this is <UNK>.
So the 25 is not kind of a straightforward answer, and the fact that it's really a combination of -- just think about -- of course, we couldn't submit all files simultaneously so it just takes time to work through those.
So think about those just being ones that we submitted more recently, and didn't work through certain regulatory processes.
In other cases, it's a combination of, they're in certain countries that have longer registration.
China has longer registration processes than most of Europe, as an example.
And then, the other one is that certain product categories, so ChloraPrep for example, is registered as a drug in many markets, particularly let's say, Latin America, it's registered as a drug.
Those typically sit in the regulatory process longer than medical devices.
So it's a combination of those three items, not one thing specific, and not unexpected at all.
It's right in line with our projections.
And you have to pull together the data for these files.
And so, certain product lines that may not have done that kind of clinical trial work for China, so we had to do some pre-work to get them into the funnel.
So that's all that is.
Okay, thanks very much.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Sure, VIjay.
So what I'd say is you really have to look at the EPS guidance in two buckets.
One is the FX inside, and then the FX impact.
So what we did, is we did flow through everything on the FX impact, and that was the $0.13.
On an FX end basis, you're right.
We were up around $0.14 to $0.16, but we see that as timing.
And the timing buckets are the Medical Device Tax spending, which we know where we want to spend it, but because of the timing don't forget it, happened in January, and we couldn't ramp that quickly.
So that past quarter, we really got a lift from that, but we fully intend to spend that in the back half of the year.
And then you had timing on the tax rates.
So the tax rate was lower than our 21% to 22%, and that's just lumpy throughout the year.
We expect that to fall back within the rest of the year.
So you had that piece.
And then we had the pull forward of some of the revenues from the third quarter to the second quarter, and the impact of that.
So all of that accounts for the bulk of that $0.14 to $0.16 on an FX end basis.
The other thing I'd point out, is we actually raised the FX and EPS guidance last quarter by $0.28.
It was lost from the standpoint, that at that point FX was getting worse across the world, and it offset that, but the FX end was raised prior.
So you really got to think about it in those two buckets.
Good morning, <UNK>.
Sure.
Sure.
So <UNK> will address those.
<UNK>, do you want to start with diabetes.
Sure, this is <UNK>.
So we haven't specifically sized the opportunity on infusion sets.
But I think as we've said all year, we were expecting to get the product into some early stage release in a controlled patient group this fiscal year, and see more of the impact in the diabetes care business in FY17.
That remains unchanged.
So we remain very excited about that opportunity.
It's of course our first venture outside of the pen, needles and syringes for the diabetes care business, moving into a fast growing market with a market leader, Medtronic.
And we're equally excited about the product technology and what it can do to help patients, and the partnership and what the power of us working together can do, to make an impact there.
So think about solutions, so as we've, of course, shared before, we have announced a solutions partnership with Fresenius.
We are looking at launching that, not necessarily now in Q4 of 2016, but more in early FY17 just based on regulatory approval time lines there, but that does continue to move forward.
And again, we had not shared a specific number there, but we said it would certainly make up for any reduction in BDRX sales that we had planned over the coming horizon, and that remains right on track.
Okay.
Thank you very much for your participation on the call today.
It was a real pleasure to talk about a very solid quarter, and to raise our EPS guidance.
It was also a pleasure to talk about the progress we're making on the CareFusion integration, and progress with those businesses, the synergies, the team's in place.
And then, lastly the strategic partnerships that we're doing including the Parker Institute relationship, the new products that are being launched.
We didn't spend a lot of time on the life science business today.
There weren't that many questions, but with BD MAX, with Kiestra, all these things happening over there, very, very exciting, and of course, the new products on the medical side.
So thank you very much for your time, and look forward to updating you next quarter.
