Good morning.
We don't have that level of detail that we've offered yet, <UNK>.
When you look at the 7,000 to 8,000 railcars as <UNK>'s talked about and you see the backlog we have in leasing, it's not too far off from what we've been doing in the past in terms of a pro rata-type level.
But we've not provided that detail yet.
Yes, we do plan to add lease cars in the first half of the year.
<UNK>, we don't at the time.
As we've said, we really work with the institutional investors in our RIV platform and our own needs and desires in terms of looking at the diversification of our fleet.
So, we didn't include that because it is difficult to predict the timing and levels here as we sit in October, but we do have plans to continue that process into 2017.
Yes, <UNK>, I think it's too early to give a sense of what that looks like yet, and that's why we try to just focus on the operational side.
In February as we provide our fourth quarter numbers and give more insight into 2017, then we will provide more detail there.
Yes.
This is <UNK>.
We always look at service, technology, competencies that we could acquire from various companies that would enhance our business -- our manufacturing platform, our leasing company and/or opportunities in the construction aggregates area.
Thanks, <UNK>.
<UNK>, this is <UNK>.
As we've talked about, expirations are fairly well spread out over the forthcoming years.
We don't have anything unusual from a lease expiration standpoint in 2017.
We're going to work very hard to keep those cars on lease.
Because of the overhang of equipment and weak demand conditions, there's going to be a lot of pressure on those lease rates.
So, that is why you look to stay short and hope to execute renewals at probably lower lease rates.
Keep in mind that some of the railcars that will be coming off of our leases are leases that we entered into at the peak of the market with very high lease rates.
So, the comparison from the incumbent lease rate to the new lease rate will probably be fairly different.
We were successful not only with our renewals during the quarter, but we're also successful in putting some other cars that were in storage back into service which helped improve our lease fleet utilization.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1.00 Eastern Standard <UNK>e today through midnight on November 3.
The access number is 402-220-2658.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net. We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call. Thank you for joining us this morning.
