I think what I will say is, one of the reasons we've gone down that way is we see not only an opportunity but we see performance.
I would say, not necessarily scientific analysis, in the newer markets, we seem to be getting a higher beverage mix far throughout the day than we did previously.
But that's probably due to the fact that we've learned a lot.
If I go back and take market [for Phoenix], which, when I came to the business, it was really struggling with fairly low beverage mix, which is the (inaudible) of the total beverage dollars that we look at.
That's far astronomically, but we've learned many lessons from those early days.
We are applying them to the new market.
I think two things that we used to talk about at the IPO, but they are really important still, is the fact that national media that covers all these markets.
If you're in a brand-new market, with one or two stores, you have national media like everyone else.
And secondly, one of the benefits of our CPG strategy is that we are developing the face profile for Dunkin' products (inaudible).
Let me just clarify, development goals of 2016 or 2017.
Those opened in 2016 and they are in our numbers in 2016 that we reported of a little bit over 200 for Q4.
We will have a few more openings of BJ's in 2017 and again, it's in that approximately 385 number.
Thanks, <UNK>.
I know we are at the top of the hour.
There's two more people in the queue, so let's take these last two questions and then we will wrap up.
So let me start at the end there.
So will the traffic correct itself.
We have a six-point plan and these guys are working on it.
Everything, -- and then making operations less complex, making it a better place to work, so, yes, I think all of that will address the traffic issues.
Now to restart it, yes, traffic overall comp performance, right, has been softer then we and our franchisees would expect.
That has certainly dampened enthusiasm to open up restaurants.
Now, within that, we're going to open up [great and] 4% restaurants next year, so I don't want to overindex -- we're not opening up any restaurants.
Again, we're going to open up approximately 385 net restaurants next year.
There are a lot of franchisees building a lot of restaurants.
But that being said, we get transactions positive and our long term, as we look at our long-term comp goals in the 2% to 4% range, when you get to a 3.5% comp, it's a different story than a 1.6% comp, right.
So yes, I think it's all those things, it's no one thing but comps get better, the restaurant operations get simplified.
Guest experience gets better.
We focus on beverage-led On-the-Go; I think all these things are going to come together to really drive development.
We've been down this road before.
So let me just give some facts.
Until the last couple years, we grew traffic every year through (inaudible).
Can we get back to posted traffic.
Yes.
Do we have the plan to get back to posted traffic.
Absolutely.
I'm probably more optimistic than I was at the start of the year, because Dave's really driving it.
He's really focused on the national values that some of you will probably point out and they are right (inaudible).
It will take a little bit of time, but I'm more optimistic than I was last year.
And I want to point out something that Dave said: if you look at just about everyone else in our industry, there is negative traffic, and that includes in the coffee and bakery segment.
I think if you look at our traffic, we outperform many of those other companies.
Thank you, everyone, for coming to listen to us today, if you're surrounded by snow, like we are.
I want to say I think we had an excellent year.
I want to pick up on what Scott said.
We have all this technology installed in a franchise system.
We are excited about that, as Scott was just describing.
Other companies sometimes do it in their Company stores but they don't do it in their franchise stores.
We've done it right across our store base.
I think we had an excellent year in 2016.
I think we have a wonderful plan that's been validated by consumer insight.
I want to comment, I spent most of the middle of last summer recruiting [and moving] for Dunkin' US and it took a lot of time and it's been worthwhile.
Dave has added new energy that is compelling to our business.
We are in great shape as we go into 2017, and we look forward to talking to you again soon.
Thanks.
