We did maybe a small part of our pack-aways in a few items in outerwear, and a few in sweaters.
But probably not any greater amount than an average year.
Do you want to comment on any other.
On the margins, I think that's hard for us to answer.
And we don't give forward guidance.
So we just have to see what happens.
Well, as far as -- I think the inventory will probably be fairly consistent for the first half of the year, just as what we have planned and how we will manage it.
But I think we've shown over the years that we can keep a good handle on that, and feel good about going forward with that.
Thank you very much.
Part of it was a port issue, and just strong selling last year.
So it was kind of a combination.
And we had some new fits that worked well last year, as I remember, and so we were trying to catch up with that.
You're speaking of last year, <UNK>.
Well, let me think just a second.
Yes, I think it was more in the men's.
There might have been selected areas in the ladies, but we did have some -- our day trip price point of shorts and capris last year were delivered late, and also lost some during the spring season.
So having that price point back in the store for this spring will be good.
But otherwise, I think the ladies -- as I remember, the inventory was fairly on track.
It's pretty much promoting from within.
Kelli Molczyk is our -- also a VP of Ladies Merchandise.
And she was given that position almost 1.5 years ago, and has been with us 19, 20 years.
And we have Stacy that works with denim accessories and categories, been with us over 20 years.
And Melissa has been over 20 years in footwear and other categories.
We feel we have a strong bench, and that Pat helped develop a strong team as she takes her retirement.
Well, we have added some brands that sell in the $60 to $70 price range, as well as expanding some of our private label, and to complement the brands that we continually use going forward.
And the team is doing a little more fashion, some different looks, some higher rise, still a variety of fits, some curvy styles, a variety of finishes.
So our denim couldn't business continues to be pretty good, and we think we will do a good job with it going forward.
Ladies, do you have anything to add.
This is Pat.
To echo what <UNK> was saying, we have some opportunities in price points -- fits, finishes -- that we just feel good about.
And the addition of some of the curvier fits that we think will address some of the guests in variety of bottom openings and such.
So with -- denim is always a solid part of our business all the time.
But when it's trending up and we have some things to work with, and the creativity of the team, it sure is a bonus.
Well, we're always optimistic, but we'll have to just see how it plays out.
Thank you.
Thank you, <UNK>.
My point of view would be that it would be more macro.
There's a lot of different parts of the country that the economy is a little challenging, that the teams are working through.
I think our stores, from the response of our teammates and from what we hear with other vendors, that we look unique and special, and have a good presentation going.
So I think our teams are doing a good job, and our service in our stores is excellent.
I think it's just the challenge of getting the excitement back for guests to come into the stores and feel good about their pocketbooks.
As well as, we are reviewing our promotions for back-to-school, how we can create a little more excitement there from what we've done in the past.
I know that teams are putting in more of a variety of price points, hitting some of the lower price points again for some of the guests.
As well as, our stores are testing out what we call Buckle Select, which is where an in-store stylus will be in touch with guests, and helping them find outfits and getting ready for occasions.
For the guests that are just too busy to get into the store and shop.
As well as, they are still doing quite a bit of appointments with our guests' get-fitted situations.
Yes, thank you.
With no additional questions, again, we would like to thank everyone for joining the call today, and have a great weekend.
This concludes the call.
