I'm glad you asked that because it's an exciting area for us in terms of future growth because really a small percent of our loyalty guests today are using the salon.
We are doing a lot.
I'd say it's coming from a lot of things.
One is we've offered a new online booking service that we know is driving largely incremental new guests, thousands of them in fact.
And then also our marketing programs right now are getting more and more focused on integrating makeup and hair and trends and they're very exciting.
I think we're actually bringing to our store associates this kind of trend training that we talked about, bringing it to life inside the store.
And certainly every get that comes into an ULTA store whose a potential new loyalty member, our associates in-store are doing great job of converting them into the loyalty program, because they understand that that's important for the business.
So all those items will work together, we think, and will continue to be a key part of our growth story.
We won't get real specific numbers on it, but it is something that we've measured for a while and we are seeing really, really healthy growth.
And that growth in effectiveness of our email campaigns is really fundamentally coming from, I'd say, two places.
One is better targeting, so we are understanding our consumers' desires, we think, a little bit better, and personalizing the emails to them.
And then the offers, the items and the creative that surrounds them we think is better as well.
So the emails themselves are better, better items, better offers, better programs that are personalized in much sharper ways, and those things have really worked well.
So we are sending out more emails, but we're getting much more effective and efficient in doing it and we think it will be a big growth driver for us going forward.
That's correct, you got that.
Yes.
Third quarter when we flip the switch at the beginning of the third quarter, and that's when it was, right, just doing a store or two and now we're to ramp it up, and it will get more efficient over time.
And as we get into the fourth quarter, it's going to service 130, 140 stores.
So at that point it will be more productive and be contributing more or less drag overall, I guess I should say.
You know I would say that I don't know that I envision another big change here.
This is a gradual process, that we've been working on really for some period of time, which is the kind of the careful experimentation, testing and learning, trying things differently and changing such that our marketing mix now -- I wouldn't say it's blunt instruments so much anymore.
I mean, I understand your question, but I think we now have a really robust array of tools that are getting better and better as it relates to effectiveness and efficiency.
So I would just consider this a core part of how we're going to always do our Business, which is constantly look for how can we be driving long-term brand equity, which is really important if you understand what ULTA is and they're aware of us.
They understand that we are all things beauty, all in one place.
And then lots of surgical tools to drive the short-term, day-to-day results that we need.
So it's an ongoing piece of how we're going to do the business, <UNK> and his team are all over it.
And that's how we look at it.
Well, we're really just starting the national television advertising, as you know.
So that's another kind of shift in the balance of the mix.
I envision that we'll be able to hold our A-dash ratio pretty consistent over time with the mix being getting more in balance, but I'd say it's getting there gradually.
It is not wildly out of balance.
I think we're moving into a place that will be pretty sustainable for the long term.
Thank you.
Yes.
In closing, I'd just like to say I'm very proud of the excellent results that the associates across ULTA Beauty are delivering while making significant progress on all of our initiatives, marketing, merchandising, supply chain.
I want to thank you for your interest in ULTA Beauty and we look for to speaking with you again soon.
Thank you.
