Thank you.
Good morning, <UNK>.
Yes, <UNK>, if you look, for the quarter, we did see a ramp-up in the routes held for sale in primarily -- some of that's in new markets, some of that's in core markets.
What we did was, as we were making enhancements to our overall distributor agreement, we did pull back some on selling territories.
But we've completed most of those enhancements, and now we're moving forward with offering many of those routes for sale now.
So, in Q2, you'll see us selling some of those territories, and you'll see a reversal of the impact of some of that in Q1.
I mean, really, not getting into any specific market or specifics about the agreement, I would say, generally -- again, we've put in some enhancements in how we're using that agreement as we sell new territories going forward.
But as far as specific numbers, we would not want to disclose that.
<UNK>, I would add that, from an operational standpoint, there's a lot of excitement in the markets, where we are actually now able to convert to independent distributors.
Many of the prospective distributors have been on standby for too long, and lots of excitement about being able to go ahead and convert to the independent distributor model in these markets.
Basically what has happened is, in the fourth quarter, we implemented price increases, really reflective of higher promotional prices, starting in the middle of the fourth quarter.
That continued -- those price increases continued to be implemented on our side, moving through the first quarter.
And the comment was, from a competitive standpoint, the pricing really did not change.
And so, that is the reason -- if you look at the graph in the deck, that's the reason for the increase in the gap between our price and the market price reported by IRI.
The market stayed the same.
We increased price, and the market stayed the same.
That's our assumption.
Yes, thank you.
Thank you, Ellen.
At Flowers, we have the right team, the right products, and the right strategy to drive shareholder value.
We operate both from a strong competitive and financial position that allows us to invest in the business while also returning capital to our stakeholders.
We remain confident that we're taking the right strategic steps to keep the Company positioned for long-term profitable growth.
Thank you for your time this morning, and this will conclude our call.
