Well, I think what it comes down to is the fact that our -- VR 13 -- we have a VR 15 multiplier, if you will, at a level considerably above the VR 12.5, which in turn was above 12.
But we expect with VR 15 to have a much more significant step up in revenues that are derived from powering rail that relate to a VR [13] type processor.
Yes, I think we talked about this earlier.
So it is a combination of customers and footprint within a customer expanding beyond particular rail.
Well, so, as I look, for instance, at design wins we already have had for the [VR family] [discussion] that have been (inaudible) in recent times since the corresponding prior introduction.
And (inaudible) have taken place with respect to the BCM products that have been released in chip form earlier this year.
We are seeing these registrations adding up at a fast-paced from week to week, month to month.
And it has been a couple of quarters but over the timeframe, it is the start of something that for that portion of our product line is very exciting because it suggests that, number one, the product is attractive to a range of customers and that they are in effect taking it to the next stage in terms of ordering sample (inaudible) and (inaudible), ordering initial small party production, which is stepping stone to larger (inaudible).
We are in that phase and with some of these products, the (inaudible) in particular in chip form we have already seen double-digit millions of dollars in the low teens worth of registrations that should lead to official business.
Well, I think this has got, as discussed in the past, the (inaudible) cycle time, gestation time of the kinds of industrial products (inaudible) products that we make.
So a typical lead time would be I would say 12 to 18 months.
Now as discussed in the past, one of the differentiating attributes of a new VF products for which we have had some initial introductions that you might have seen announced in press releases, with respect to which you are going to see a lot more introductions coming in the weeks and months to come.
Those products have a shorter time to fruition, because they don't require the customer to design the solution on their motherboard.
It is a product that typically are used as front end component, you can mount it to a chassis.
And because of that they tend to get designed in later in the cycle -- in the customer cycle.
And occasionally there is an opportunity because of changing power requirements or issues the customer might have with the solutions that they currently use which may not work or may not have enough power capability, there is opportunity for in effect substituting something else.
So the characteristic timescale for those kinds of products tends to be shorter.
And they could provide a contribution on a shorter time scale than let's say PRM VTM point of load Factorized Power solution with digital designing cycle is all longer because the customer is (inaudible) adapting to a power distribution architecture that is unique, it is not (inaudible) a significant design [impact].
Communication [certifications] are a part of our target for these kinds of product.
To your point, there is a lot of those boxes in communication systems.
They tend to be relatively fragmented type of opportunities that with conventional approaches are challenged because of the lack of scalability and the box or boxes that you saw very likely were designed as traditional custom power supplies.
Asian vendors that are challenged with respect to an ROI proposition on these kinds of boxes because (inaudible) any one of them.
They may only be let's say $2 million and $5 million a year worth of business opportunity, which makes it difficult to justify developing the solution from the ground up with (inaudible) as to be focused on making the development happen on a timescale of 9 or 12 months.
With our V approach we have a lot of scalability to address these kinds of needs that changes the ROI calculation and changes some of the basic criteria for success.
And I think over time is going to give us a lot of traction in these kinds of applications.
In the aggregate this is a very large market.
If you look at an individual box, the revenue opportunity for any one individual box typically is not all that large, hence, the approach that in the long-term where really (inaudible) is one that doesn't go at it on a case-by-case basis with an army of engineers.
That is not scalable.
We have a scalable approach.
In a much more efficient and reliable way, because part of the position, part of [the variable] position is that customers can in effect reuse proven building blocks.
Well, our focus is going to be on addressing the power system requirement with solutions that, to the extent possible, are standard or [semi] custom type of solutions as opposed to a custom tailored solution which, for the reasons outlined a moment ago, tend to be very challenged.
And you can't (multiple speakers), because of lack of space, because of the fact that they are squeezed in terms of their power needs and the volume that is available to address the power need, they are often tempted to want to have something designed to just fit in the left over space.
But again, for the reasons that were quickly outlined a little while ago, that is not an attractive proposition either for the customers because of the [unit] cost, the various risks or even for their suppliers, because with the traditional way of doing that kind of solution from the ground up there is really no return investment.
Well, if there is a last question, if not -- is there any other question, operator.
My thinking is that we still need to stay focused on delivering the goods with respect to delivering the products and we have been doing a good job of that.
And now delivering -- next delivering the revenues and, as you know from the early discussion, we still have a few quarters of work to do to be able to present to investors a very appealing success story.
And there will be a better time to take our case to investors.
Right now we need to stay focused on delivering the goods.
You are welcome.
And with that we will be set for the next quarterly call.
Thank you.
