I'll put <UNK> on the spot.
I have great expectations and ambitions but I won't let that influence <UNK>.
Good morning.
Yes, there is a good robust queue that we're targeting now and again as we end contracts or put contracts in place will come on probably 2019.
So it takes a couple years for negotiations.
But I can't get into specifics but I'm excited about there's a few ones that are coming close and we are negotiating now.
So hope to keep the new growing portfolio certainly.
If I remember the numbers right, <UNK>, our target this year was to bring this landfills in at probably with maybe a total loss of about $1 million.
I think that a lot of that was focused on optimizing -- a number of steps were taken to optimize.
I think for the year to date they're probably right around $750,000 on the negative side which is less than half of what the number was last year through the first six months.
We're still going through our optimization processes on those.
We're still pretty optimistic that there's a lot of improvement that we can get out of those.
As far as the Taj goes, it's disappointing that this is the outcome.
I think the labor strike -- it certainly appears to be something they couldn't overcome.
The optimist in me hopes that it's posturing and that they're able to come to the table and reach some kind of a settlement and reopen the Casino because I think it's in everybody's best interest.
And certainly not just the workers but the overall community.
As far as Atlantic City goes, again, I think, <UNK>, it's a lot of the same.
There's a lot of strengthening in the market.
I think the right-sizing has had the desired effect.
The Casino performance, probably with the exception of the loan exception of the Taj, has year over year been improving.
Again, you're seeing a diversification of the economy down there, so an increase in retail and commercial support of the Casino.
We're excited be a part of it.
The amount that we have that is ready for intended use is 194 and I think is was 106,000 SRECs.
(laughter) You weren't kidding when you said you were going back in queue.
(laughter)
We should ask you what the other partners are saying.
(laughter) (multiple speakers) I'll let <UNK>, who really leads our efforts here, speak to that.
Our goal is in the timeline, and I believe all our partners are expecting this, as we continue to expect second half 2018 in-service dates.
So certainly with the latest release with FERC, that's right in line to our timing.
Next step is to get the certificate in early 2017.
That all fits into a second half of 2018 start.
And I believe PennEast, on their public information also says that, so that should be consistent.
In terms of the cost, we're still, I think, about $1 billion to $1.1 billion in terms of what the latest forecast says for PennEast.
And of course we're a 20% share of that.
Still in line to what we've been saying initially, just, again, when we had to delay the pipe on our last update.
But again, expectations are second half of 2018.
<UNK>, what I would say is that right now the original mandate was oral arguments were to occur in September.
And I think what they ended up doing was, they struggled for a date so it's now supposedly going to be at the beginning of October.
That's still our expectation.
That may not take that long.
Frankly, from our view, the appeals, we feel really strongly about our ability to succeed against those appeals.
But you would think that getting those addressed during the fourth quarter is something that we could expect.
Somebody could Google that really quick.
(laughter) Honestly, I don't think -- what's that.
I didn't know if you were specifically asking in terms of our utility or the non-utility business.
What are you looking at for this winter.
Yes, the winter, from our transportation book, basis is a strong relative to the what we see in last year.
Our capacity, what we're seeing, is attractive in terms of values.
We're actively hedging that, locking that in to secure our budget and our forecast.
But to the extent there's volatility, we'll be in a position to certainly take advantage of that with our other mechanisms of how to do that.
Playing both sides of it, locking in attractive values.
But if there's weather and volatility, which there always is, throughout this winter, we'll be able to take advantage of that and upgrade certain things.
Thanks, <UNK>.
<UNK>, it is <UNK>.
We are required to file, I believe it's before the end of 2017 anyway.
And obviously we've invested a lot to date.
We don't have a specific date out there.
We haven't talked to you about a specific date.
But clearly we have a case coming up sooner rather than later.
It's would not be unexpected for us to be filing earlier than the mandated late 2017 requirement.
I think it was by 2017, so arguably it would be the fourth quarter there.
All right, thanks.
Before we wrap, up as always, please feel free to contact <UNK> <UNK>, our Director of Investor Relations, or Ann Anthony, our Treasurer, if any follow-up questions arise.
<UNK> can be reached at 609-561-9000, extension 4227, or by email at mtravaline@SJIndustries.com.
Ann can be reached at extension 4143, or by email at anthony@SJindustries.com.
Again, thank you for joining us today and for your continued interest and investment in SJI.
