No, I think it's really that Agate has its employees and we'll continue to support that as appropriate.
But we -- the business is growing.
We said it was up 39%, 38% so you can expect the employment base to grow.
I think that increase is relatively consistent from quarter to quarter.
We provide the last five quarters in our press release in terms of employees and you can see a steady increase every quarter.
Our guidance includes expected rate increase in Florida for September 1 which is significant -- it's greater than the zero to 1% average for the whole Company.
But still that's still in discussion stage on several fronts, so we don't want to give specific numbers.
Well it could be -- we're not going to put something in there we can forecast downside on.
But we try to put realistic numbers in our guidance, and what we have in there now we think is a realistic expectation.
And I really have not paid attention to what others are doing.
Yes, <UNK>, this is <UNK>.
So I -- there -- I don't think we can comment of what other people are talking about with respect to other people trying to enter the market.
I think we continue to be -- standby our performance in that contract over the last number of years and the quality of our response.
And I think on the first part, the timing is always a little bit open, but we do expect some time I think August is probably the best window that we would communicate at this point for an anticipated award.
I said in my prepared remarks that we anticipate the trend remaining stable.
No, I think we just look at it across the whole book of business and we see it as a stable business, stable trend.
I think there are a lot of states looking at it.
It's really a political thing between the Governors and their Legislators.
I think trying to hazard how many are going to do what will be a little foolhardy going into a national election in 2016.
No, it's a combination with the management fees in there and that has a lot to do as we've talked about historically.
Well thank you.
Know we appreciate your interest and look forward to talking to you at the end of Q3.
Thank you.
