(laughter) Thank you for that clarification because you knew the first thing I was going to say.
So now I don't have to say it.
So I think it's a good question.
Let me just sort of an overall give what we're seeing as far as revenue strength.
I think there are two things that I'd talk about that have created the strength.
The first is we have seen a lot of strength in the transcon.
And primarily on the Mint competitive routes but not exclusively on the Mint competitive routes.
The second thing is we've seen a pretty significant change in the pricing environment.
Again, looking backwards in the pricing environment.
Prices are still down versus what they were in fourth quarter of 2015.
But sequentially throughout the year we're certainly seeing some pricing strength we hadn't seen before.
So from that perspective I think those are both combining pretty nicely to create some of that close and strengths.
I think that's fair, yes.
I think, again, <UNK>, thanks for the question.
I know it's something that we've discussed before.
I think that our plan is -- has historically been very prudent.
We have focused on for several years now in terms of building our focus city presence.
We had a lot of questions on Boston/Atlanta, for example.
That has really being the biggest ask for our Boston business travel community.
So I think we continue to run the airline prudently, focused on our strategy and the need to build more network relevance for our customers.
In terms of the theme of disruption, I think that's something that JetBlue has always tried to be in forefront of.
When <UNK> Neeleman and Dave Barger and others founded this airline many years ago, the first airline to put live TV on, then sort of changes like even more creating -- not our word but the word of the industry is a hub here in New York City at JFK when folks said it couldn't work.
Then Boston, can you really become a profitable airline in Boston.
I think we proved that wrong.
We sat out Wi-Fi until we had a great broadband solution that had the ability to transform the on-board experience of our customers.
We've continued to focus very much on culture and really put the crew member at the heart of what we do which has been challenging for other airlines to do.
So when I think about Tech Ventures and when I think about JetSuite, I just think these are more current and more modern manifestations of what we've been doing for 16 years.
It's certainly not intended to poke anyone in the eye but it is intended to make sure that we stay at the forefront and that I think there's a lot of complacency out there that says this airline industry can't get disrupted.
But we disagree with that.
And we see some things that are emerging through our technology ventures group out in Silicon Valley led by Bonny Simi that has the potential, at least in part, to change this industry.
And so we're pleased that we're part of that because we are much more smarter by being so than assuming it couldn't happen to us.
I think this is the last question, so I'm actually going to let <UNK> answer the last question on his last earnings call.
Plus he knows the answer.
(laughter) It's always a good start.
<UNK>, over to you.
Actually I think it would be elegant if we turned it over to the interim -- the soon to be interim CFO.
Okay there's a ceremonial passing of the baton here.
In front of everybody.
And I'd like to introduce <UNK> <UNK> onto the call, our interim CFO.
Welcome, <UNK>.
Hi, Mike.
It's <UNK>.
How are you.
We don't plan to consolidate the investment.
It would be an equity method pick-up.
