Good morning, <UNK>.
Well, I think, as <UNK> talked about in his comments on FX, a strong dollar is not a positive for [this] business.
But I think as we look at the euro right now, if you look year-over-year, it has weakened considerably compared to the US dollar.
So I wouldn't necessarily see that it will be significantly weaker from where it is today.
Thank you for your comment regarding the improved profitability, and as I mentioned earlier, a lot of good work from our employees.
With that said, in both of those businesses we've still got more work to do.
In terms of growth, generally, we've said we would like to grow our Company.
We'll be very disciplined about how we do.
That we think our largest opportunities will be in Timberlands.
But if we can find bolt-on type acquisitions in our other businesses that make sense and drive value for shareholders, that's something we would consider.
But our primary focus, especially in the two businesses that you just highlighted, are continuing to improve our existing operations.
Thank you.
Good morning, <UNK>.
I think when we announced the share repurchase, our intent when we announced it is to fully execute it.
So we'll continue to update everybody on exactly where we are on a quarter-to-quarter basis, but our intention would be to execute that -- the share repurchase over time.
There's nothing to be read into that, <UNK>.
In terms of our southern Timberlands, I would say our -- while there are these one-offs, our demand has been -- continued to be fairly consistent.
And pricing in the third quarter was up slightly versus the second quarter.
And for 2015 versus 2014, our best guess is prices will be up somewhere in the 2% to 3% range as we had indicated earlier this year.
So, yes, was there some impact from those announcements.
Yes.
But was it -- did it have a significant impact on our Timberlands, either volume or price.
No.
There's not a lot out there right now, <UNK>.
I would tell you, especially for higher-quality Timberlands, when something does come -- become available, there's a lot of interest, a lot of competition, and still a lot of money out there interested in investing in this asset class.
But in terms of specific opportunities other than the two that you just mentioned, not seeing a lot of activity in terms of availability.
I do think the improvements that we've seen are sustainable.
I do believe that we have, as I alluded to earlier, additional opportunities to improve that business going forward.
So to your point, very encouraged about the progress, very encouraged about the work of our employees in that business.
And there's no reason that things that we've done aren't sustainable and that there aren't additional opportunities to improve that business going forward.
Thank you, <UNK>.
Let me just close by saying thanks, everybody, for joining in this morning.
And more importantly, thank you for your interest in Weyerhaeuser and everybody have a good day.
