As we speak, our teams, our product teams, are in Budapest right now working on our long-term product strategy.
So, that work is really underway, but really early.
So I think you're going to have to wait a little bit until we are ready to provide more details about the integration of our different products.
This is <UNK>.
As <UNK> said, we are early days in the integration.
We're going to have an analyst day in Q3.
It's really too early for us to get into much more detail around reporting around what we used to call clouds, if you will.
It's likely it looks different once we do report it, but it's too early.
And that would be information that we would be ready to share at our analyst day.
Thanks, <UNK>.
This is <UNK>.
Look, it's really clear that integration is job one, and synergy capture is closely linked to that.
As I said earlier, those two things are well underway and they will continue throughout the year.
The product strategy is we are now kind of turning our attention now with 30 days into the close now we've got a lot of that work, the integration work, kicked off, really digging in on the product strategy.
We don't need to be disruptive and generate any kind of disruptive customer experience, so that is something we are being cautious of as we develop these product strategies.
But that is something we'll start providing more detail as we work through the year.
I think that's something to look for, as well as a longer-term financial model.
Our hope is, on our analyst day, we're going to be talking about a three to five-year plan that we'll be prepared to share that's in line with and supporting the things that we've already been talking about in terms of long-term financial profile.
But look, I think, right now, our focus is on synergy and integration, delivering on those things, and then the product component of our strategy will be shared as we work through the year.
Yes, I think it's fair to say a little bit will be a little bit more frontloaded.
That work is, as I said, it's underway, and we I think started very strong in February making some -- moving quickly.
We wanted to get a lot of the hard work underway and behind us so we can start focusing on long-term growth.
And I think that's representative of where we are.
<UNK>.
Yes, and I think, as <UNK> mentioned earlier, I think a good spot to also keep your eye is on our EBITDA results.
And particularly we gave EBITDA guidance, adjusted EBITDA guidance, at the high end of the range at 35% today.
So I think that's another good way to track our progress going forward.
Thanks for the question.
That's been part of the integration.
I think a lot of that work is now behind us.
We were -- we had planned and we executed a reorganization kind of within the first two weeks after we completed the merger.
We wanted -- my goal was to get people really aligned and the people who were here and the people going forward and working as one team, and I think we are there.
So I think we've had good employee retention.
I think the employee base -- I know the employee base is really excited about being one company.
And I've spent a lot of time with the employees from the former GoTo business as well as the LogMeIn business, but I can tell you that everyone is really excited, and now, with all that work behind us, now can focus on the go-forward business.
Thank you for your questions tonight.
LogMeIn finished 2016 on a high note, and with the merger now closed, we believe we have the opportunity to create a unique SaaS profile.
Our focus in 2017 will be making the integration a success and laying the foundation for a company that, over the long term, is targeting 10% compounded annual revenue growth, 40% adjusted EBITDA margins, and 30% cash flow, all while returning up to $700 million to our shareholders.
And we have a lot of work in front of us, but we are executing well, and it's an incredibly exciting time in our history.
We look forward to sharing our progress when we report our Q1 results in April.
Thanks again for taking the time this evening.
