No.
Yes, we think it's a mid-single-digit from a volume standpoint, <UNK>.
And then with good pricing actions, hopefully we can push that up a little bit more.
I think you are looking at low side, 2%; high side, if everything goes right, 5%.
And then for us to get really big growth, something will have to happen in the macro environment.
So maybe one of the smaller competitors goes out of business.
Think of all the different things that could happen that might impact that.
But in the normal course of business, I think that's where we'll be.
When you get into ORs in the low 80s, I start getting nervous from the standpoint of how much more can you improve it.
Then when people ask you how much more can you improve it, I get really nervous.
So, I will go back to what I said earlier.
To make this better, at this level, a lot of positive things have to happen.
They happened in the second quarter.
We got a little bit of relief on fuel.
We had, overall, pretty good volumes.
And we had the volume that we wanted, and got rid of the volume we did not want.
We had our pricing in place, and it did a good job.
So all of those things have to occur to really make an 83 and 82.
Again, if things line up, we can do it.
If they don't, we're happy with an 83.
This is a <UNK> opinion, so it's worthless.
But I think the inventory levels we see today are the new normal.
We've had a number of months to get them down, and it simply hasn't occurred.
And when you talk retail, you can't group it because there are retail outlets, stores, whatever, that are doing well.
And there are others that are just dying on the vine.
So it's really hard for me to lump those all together.
If I followed your question, when we say -- first of all, we got the warts from the Towne acquisition behind us.
That's, number one, most important.
Number two, we retained the business from Towne that we wanted to.
So that was a big step forward.
And number three, it is now priced properly.
So all of those things together worked themselves out in Q2; took us a year to get there; and they will carry forward as we go into the future.
That is correct.
We won't buy forwarders, I can assure you that.
You never know when opportunities will come up within our operating parameters.
We do have competitors.
But today, as we sit here, we have nothing on the books.
Thank you.
