MLRs are slightly lower for the Medicaid expansion population than our overall average MLR, given the lower -- slightly lower acuity of the population.
So that would be in line with our expectations, and then the total program size is about -- expected to be about 250,000 members.
That could grow over time, and they're five managed care organizations in Louisiana.
So those are the rough dimensions for the opportunity.
Yes.
This is <UNK>.
You are a little hard to hear.
As I commented at our Investor Day, we're not going to give stand-alone guidance for Centene.
So, we will have to get into that on a combined basis once the transaction closes.
We don't see PDRs (inaudible) and we tend to avoid going into businesses with PDR before you see your first [numbers].
The only thing that I would add is that, when we prepare our budgets and operating plans, we assume that we're going to win business and have new plans coming in every year.
So when we said, for example, in the fourth quarter, we've included the start-up costs for something like Nebraska.
That's because we are always anticipating a certain level of those business expansion costs.
(Multiple speakers).
We will not sign a contract where we don't think the tax (inaudible).
We look at it, we recognize that it may not be profitable from day one, but we have to have service authority.
And, I can tell you, it is policy to not go into the state if we think we're going to do a PDR (inaudible).
I'm going to drop it at that point (technical difficulty).
It's important, and I said this multiple times, in no way at any time in the past since we started doing the demonstration have we looked to the dual product for any of our growth.
We recognize that would be a very slow difficult process the way we're structured, with the opt-outs, et cetera.
And, for that reason, we have said from the beginning that it's just not something we put a lot behind.
We are doing enough.
I think we said at the Investor Day if we get to a high total [between two companies 50,000], we're doing enough to demonstrate and we really know how to do it and do it well.
And we're working with the state issues that affect the outcome so that when and if they decide to do something about it, we're in a strong position.
Beyond that, I have no great expectations.
It's not going to make or break any state or any year.
I think you're going to have to have programmatic changes to minimize the opt-out.
You can't have 50% opt out and have any continuity (inaudible).
[That has to change.
]
Thank you.
Thank you.
I want to thank you all for your interest, comments.
We look forward to another very strong year.
I hope <UNK> will be giving the same reports that <UNK> has.
Thank you, everybody.
Have a good day.
