<UNK>, two questions.
Q4, our AUR was up low single digits.
In terms of Canada, Target Canada, we had worked hard on that initiative to support them the last two years.
We did about $10 million in business up there last year.
Had good sellthroughs and actually we were a bright spot in their business.
So we felt good about that.
But we are going to move forward.
We are expecting that demand over time will shift into other channels.
Who knows where exactly, but our best guess would be Walmart would be an opportunity.
We are talking to them about that.
And hopefully in our own stores and direct-to-consumer businesses up there.
For Walmart, we launched that in 2014.
Our first full assortments hit those stores for this fall.
So that's going to be meaningful business for us up there in Canada and we do plan to expand that as much as we possibly can and believe that some of that Target business will certainly go in that direction.
It's modest.
The information we have would suggest there's been a slight increase in the number of births, but I'd say it's comparable year-over-year.
Thank you.
Sure.
So on the first, on the pricing, thankfully, we are entering a more favorable cost environment.
Cotton prices are lower.
Fuel prices are lower.
Capacity in Asia is greater because global demand generally for apparel is not robust.
So we don't anticipate that there is going to be much need for raising prices over time.
The thing we continue to keep an eye on is rising labor costs in Asia.
And so that won't be an issue unique to us, so if we start to see some pressure on cost, we will be thoughtful in terms of the price increase.
Our focus, as you know, is building our operating margin every year.
So we have no interest in operating a lower margin business.
So if costs move up, we will do our best to cover those costs with price adjustments, but thankfully near term we don't anticipate a need to have to do that.
And then with respect to traffic to outlet, I think generally you have to assume that traffic is not going to be up.
I'm looking at performance in December.
Thankfully traffic to our stores was up in December.
It was up in January, but what we saw is traffic was down some portion of 4% for both brands last year.
We did see a pickup in traffic to the outlets in December with lower gas prices.
We saw that for OshKosh, and OshKosh has a heavier mix of outlet stores relative to brand stores.
So we saw good traffic for OshKosh both in December and January.
But consumers are making fewer trips to stores, they are more productive trips, they are shopping online, browsing at home online and then coming into the stores and it's a much more focused visit.
So we are anticipating that traffic will still be a bit under pressure and that's why we are doing some better things with respect to marketing in the in-store experience.
Thanks very much.
Thanks, everybody, for joining us on the call this morning.
We appreciate your interest in our business.
We look forward to updating you again in April.
Goodbye.
