So the strong dollar is obviously affecting any of our -- any of the dollars that we are bringing back to the United States from the movie and television businesses that we distribute around the world.
And despite the strong dollar, we have had the most successful film in our history with Fast and Furious 7, which actually the benefit of which is in the second quarter, not the first quarter.
But we are currently standing at over $1.4 billion in worldwide box office and that would be pretty significantly higher if the dollar wasn't so strong.
As it relates to Orlando, we have really seen no impact from the strong dollar.
It is very difficult to tell because our attendance is up so dramatically.
When your attendance is up 25%, it is basically coming from everywhere including international and we have very, very strong Latin American business and European businesses.
So we lap ourselves with Harry Potter this summer and would anticipate that the overage or the increase in attendance to decline but we don't think that international is going to be the kind of drag that is noticeable because we are on such a run and we are growing the overall business and a piece of that is international.
But a big piece of that is local, domestic and faraway domestic as well.
<UNK>, I will take the cash point.
I think you know, we really don't provide multiyear sort of forecasts on where we think cash is going.
But the reality is the Company is generating cash, we are providing the vast majority of it back to shareholders in both the form of dividends and buybacks and we increased the dividend about 11% a few months ago and now we are continuing to increase the buyback pretty significantly.
So as we go forward, I think that is sort of an annual review.
The annual review is where do we think free cash flow is, where do we think leverage should be, where do we think our overall dividend and return of capital should be.
I really don't see our -- the investment area that you mentioned having any material impact on return of capital or leverage.
We are an A-rated credit and I do think now we will probably end the year approximately at 2 times and as we go forward could we delever just a little bit organically as we have over the last four years.
Sure, but I don't anticipate any large change or swings.
Yes, this is <UNK>.
On Title II, it really hasn't affected the way we have been doing our business or will do our business.
We believe on Open Internet and while we don't necessarily agree with the Title II implementation, we conduct our business the same we always have, transparency and nonpaid peering and things like that.
I think how it will emerge remains to be seen.
We have been flexible in our packaging with HSD.
We have invested significantly in our capacity and will continue to do so and that includes both the -- we launched a 2 gigabit speed, 2 gigabit symmetrical speed recently.
We are rolling that out across 18 million homes by the end of the year and we've got the fastest in-home Wi-Fi router.
So the broadband in terms of pricing we remain market flexible.
We are always balancing rate and volume and packaging in different ways so we will be in tune with the market is the way I would describe it.
Consumption patterns continue to go up.
We increased 40% to 50%, our capacity consumption going up that amount per year and we haven't seen a dramatic change in that but we will continue to invest.
We double our capacity every 18 months and we don't see that slowing down in the near term.
Retrans has been very helpful.
I believe the number for 2015 is approximately $500 million so that has just been a great tailwind for NBCUniversal.
I think going back four or five years ago when we acquired the Company, the number was in the single-digit millions of dollars and now that number is approaching 500.
So that is certainly helping and importantly dropping to the bottom line.
That was an important factor that we have talked about internally is making sure that yes, we are investing significantly and programming across the board but that some of those dollars can increase profitability.
Again we don't have any new news or even new focus today.
I do think as <UNK> said, the international results at NBCUniversal have been really strong and part of what is helping our growth so clearly we now have products, we have opportunities internationally that we never had before, buying NBCUniversal, <UNK>'s new company is what you have an opportunity to look at things from all over the world.
But I think our number one focus and just want to make sure you hear it, is the kind of results that we posted in the first quarter here.
It is staying focused, not taking our eye off of the ball, looking at how to accelerate this great X1 experience for customers, improving customer service every quarter as we did in the last quarter.
But we know we can continue, we will have a lot of news to talk about that at the Cable convention and continuing to onboard great products that we have got in the Company and get them to more consumers.
So good quarter and thank you to the team for making it happen.
Thanks, <UNK>.
We will wrap up there and again, thanks everyone for the flexibility this morning with the time change.
Brent, back to you.
