I will take the first part and turn it over to any number of the other folks.
That's <UNK> <UNK> to my right and <UNK> <UNK> to my left.
Yes.
I think the word growth was intentional in a few respects.
One is, we think it can grow beyond its current asset base.
But within its asset base, we see growth.
There's no surprise to you that we are viewing Monte <UNK> with a very optimistic lens.
The fact that it has 3000 rooms, next to CityCenter, embracing a $400 million arena, $100 million Park, right on the center strip.
Means a clearly can be something more than it is today.
We believe that it will be.
And it will be called something else, and it will be positioned differently.
And it will grow its cash flows by virtue of putting in strategic capital into that property.
I would have to say, there are other great opportunities that we're looking at as well.
<UNK> <UNK> has a team looking at Excalibur, and recognizing the fact that we have a very underperforming corner of Tropicana and the Las Vegas Blvd.
And why would we do at others have done so successfully, and draw mid-scale retail into that corner, and therefore drawing traffic into Excalibur.
We know from our convention dialogues, I've had a meeting as recently last week.
<UNK> and <UNK>, with convention people this week, that if we had more convention space for the association business, and if we had more concrete space, which is relatively inexpensive to build, we could dramatically increase the cash flows of Luxor, as an example.
The list goes on and on.
We don't view our portfolio properties that we are contributing in as a mature properties.
We view them as properties with stable and strong cash flows, that were up 33% year-on-year in the current quarter.
But that each and individual one have their own growth trajectory.
So, what this allows us to do, is over the next few months, evaluate our portfolio in a very specific way.
Looking at return on investment, as the criteria.
And where do we deploy capital in the highest ROI way.
As it relates to Bellagio versus MGM do you want to take that.
Circus Circus is a really exciting and intriguing longer-term, but intriguing opportunity we believe for MGM Resorts.
It sits on 100 acres.
Can you imagine that.
100 acres.
We have a young management team there that is just crushing it right now.
You can see it in the results.
They're enthused, they're having fun, they're innovating.
They're a big part of our profit growth plan.
Eric Fitzgerald, who runs that property has been a leader on some corporate initiatives.
And we feel like, it's a smaller property in term of cash flows, but it's punching above its weight.
And it has a lot of potential.
And yes, clearly, there's an awful lot of opportunity that could go around there.
When we did the Rockin' Music Festival, we saw a nice bump.
That's the future of Las Vegas as you know.
We're a leader in that area bringing music festivals, whether it's EDC or live music.
We will be doing more of that.
So, yes it's not an major contributor of cash flows to MGM Resorts, but it is a major contributor of ideas and innovation.
And it is certainly is out there as it relates to growth potential.
On daily fantasy sports, <UNK> <UNK> nudged me about three or four times in my ribs here.
I will turn it over to <UNK>.
Because you don't want to know what I think.
(laughter)
Obviously, with a lot of people it's something we've all followed with great interest.
We will continue to do so, we absolutely want to see if the states rights issue to be clear, its a program that we, because we do other things in social gaming.
At some point we would like to participate.
But the states need to apply non-direct consumer protections, in setting it up so a company like ours can participate.
Right now is obviously, it's in a gray area.
And over time, and we hope relatively quickly, because there has been a lot of attention on the space.
There will be some clarity around with states like Massachusetts, Illinois and others that we're in want to do with it.
We're actively engaged in the story, AGA is engaged in the story and following it.
And we'd like to participative and helpful, because we think it's meaningful in the long run.
And I like sports too <UNK>.
Thank you everyone for joining for any follow-up questions, please reach out to my office.
And we will get back to any and all of you as quickly as we can today.
Thank you.
