The insurance proceeds, is that in the guidance.
And the timing, would that be second half.
Yes.
when we thought about it, <UNK>, the cash flow will come in likely as a rebuild.
So we'll be able to redeploy it, but it's going to take a period of time.
It is booked as income because we had to take the impairment, but that's not in the numbers.
I would exclude that from the AFFO, just as I excluded the impairment related to it.
Just to follow up on <UNK>'s question, I believe, on the Genesis loan.
So what's assumed there in terms of accruing for interest income on that $48 million loan.
And then there was like a temporary forgiveness to them.
And if you could just give us a sense of kind of what -- how that restructuring for Genesis is playing out when you expect interest to continue to repay it again.
So we continue to accrue the interest on that loan, <UNK>.
That's our one significant concession and direct level workout that's really driven by rather 2 big landlords, Welltower and Sabra.
Just to give you a little bit of color on that loan, that loan is fully collateralized, very sufficiently collateralized, including the accrued interest.
So we feel very comfortable about that loan and any scenario.
In terms of where Genesis is headed, we'll leave that to them.
But the pieces, we know we feel good about their progress.
So when did they start paying cash again on the loan.
What's your expectation.
What's in the guidance, I guess.
So the forbearance as of February.
So we don't expect that to come back in <UNK>h unless there are some -- there's no other -- there's been no other discussion related to it, but it would be -- the expectation would be <UNK>h unless we have some change between now and then.
Okay.
And then just on your demographic comment, what's the average entry age of a skilled nursing customer.
Yes.
It's a very interesting, <UNK>.
The utilization rates for skilled, if you look at each age from 65 to 75, the curve is very gradual.
And it moves up, obviously, and then it's the 75- to 76-year-old age group and up each -- by each year.
It starts to increase very significantly, as you would expect, all the way in through the 80s and 90s.
It increases each year of age.
So if we, call it, 76 years old as an [interesting] point where you start to accelerate utilization and you think about birth rates beginning to increase in 1940.
So a couple of years ago, we started to see those 1940-year-olds first hit 76, now 77 and 78 years old.
And they're progressing up and we have a lot behind them from a natality perspective from 1940 on.
And then '45, obviously it explodes.
But from '40 on, you have birth rates going up, and that's part of the driver in this demographic and part of the detailed analysis that <UNK> <UNK> and Matthew Gourmand will work on to provide high-level information to our investors.
So the average age of a skilled nursing patient is in the mid-70s.
So 10 -- more or less 10 years younger than seniors' housing.
Is that what you guys are seeing.
If you look at -- and we'll provide the utilization curve that we've developed as part of our information on -- at least on a national basis, we'll provide it.
The mid-70s utilization rates, that's where you really start to see it pick up in a meaningful way.
So I hesitate to say an average, but because it weighs even more heavily as you get out on the curve.
But I think it's fair to think about it as mid-70s and beyond driving a bulk of admissions into our facilities.
Thank you very much for joining our call today.
We'll be available for any follow-up that anyone may have.
Have a great day.
