Yes, some of the severance is in cost of revenue.
We do break that out.
So, if people were let go in the direct head count, if you will, those dollars would be in there.
It's a mishmash of a bunch of different things, <UNK>, which includes incentive compensation changes and other types of adjustments.
And the -- obviously, the selling organization, the investment we made there is all in SG&A.
Yes.
Absolutely.
I wasn't sure the numbers you just quoting included the emergency response work we've done and the impact of that.
There was a big number in Q3 that may have screwed up some of the first half second half numbers.
Yes, absolutely.
Clearly, as we look at Q1 and we -- as you know <UNK>, we meet weekly on this topic that we're getting them.
Yes.
We don't really give that number out specifically.
Kind of year-over-year, interestingly enough, there was -- it's still a bit of a headwind, as you look at Q1, versus, Q1, $0.80 was the average rate in Q1 of 2015 and $0.72 was the average rate in 2016.
And so it was a bit of a headwind as we look out.
We think that fixes itself as the Canadian dollar last year, kind of went from $0.80 down into the low $0.70s, even $0.69.
And so that picks this up as the year rolls on.
But in Q1, it's still a bit of headwind.
Yes.
Absolutely.
This is <UNK>.
And just to comment on what <UNK> said just to add the point that if you look at the first quarter, it was about a $12 million headwind in revenues, probably a $1 million or so in EBITDA.
But as you suggest, as we move later through this year certainly we will start seeing some benefit there, and we were not very aggressive in our guidance in looking at that.
We use -- we kind of current use -- as we mentioned before, we use kind of current period FX rate as we give our guidance and so we update that as year rolls on.
Right.
Okay.
So thanks for joining us today.
The team is presenting at a number of upcoming conferences starting next week with Sterne Agee's Business Services Conference and Oppenheimer's Industrial Conference.
We hope to catch up with many of you in-person soon and look forward to updating you as the year progresses.
Have a great day.
