We don't really have any metrics we can share.
I would tell you that the rollout went very smooth.
This was one that was pretty high risk and we accelerated it, to make sure we could get it in before holiday, so things went very smooth, all things considered.
We did get some step-up in the technology, as far as cyber protection as part of that system, so we are very happy that we were able to accelerate the implementation of that.
Matt, historically, what we -- as you well know, we have been experimenting with this model for quite some time.
So historically, as we rolled it out to new markets, we saw a sales hit in year one as people kind of got comfortable with the program, and we saw that moderate over the course of the year.
So the going-in assumption was like a one-year cycle time to get back to what I would call an equilibrium with the guests.
This rollout, the conversion that we did with the 50% of the country in 2014, we didn't see that.
We saw sales actually accelerate from our expectations and, of course that equated to more points being earned and more of a margin headwind, because of that, because people are more engaged, and it's easier to understand.
Yes, we haven't really seen that.
Again, it's a different scale now.
We've got the whole country on this program, and I can just tell you from the inside, we are very excited about what this program provides to the Company, and the opportunities that we're going to have to drive more engagement, more focused offers to our guests, by using our CRM tool.
And, again, we are in the very early stages of this.
Yes, I will start with the content.
And absolutely, we are very focused on that.
And this is a category industry that is so driven by trend and content, new discoveries, so we're building content, we are working with our vendor partners to acquire more content, and you will see more of that to come from us for sure.
In closing, I would like to thank our 22,000 dedicated associates for a really terrific 2014, and their tireless efforts to differentiate Ulta Beauty and to continue our strong momentum into 2015 and beyond.
And thanks to all of you for your interest in our Company.
I look forward to speaking with you all again soon.
Thank you.
