For the year.
To answer the question, it's $55 million.
We're sticking to $55 million.
Clearly it's something that we address in our training and messaging with our people.
I think it's a little earlier, it's not coming up as a huge issue yet.
With your bringing it up, honestly, quite honestly it's the first time anyone has brought it up to us.
We can certainly follow-up and provide more color on that.
But, you know, certainly some we are aware of.
We try to weave in as appropriate.
I think it would be better if we perhaps we did a bit of a follow-up.
Eight figure deals.
I don't believe so.
No, not in this quarter.
FortiOS mode works for the FortiGate, that's whereas that the center, the network included internal segmentation solutions there.
But when you cross to the end point, the access, and then the application, the cloud, IoT, then you need to have some different solutions working together.
Whether it's the internal Fortinet product or there's other third-party products.
That's what we try to use in this fabric, security fabric approach to make it all working together.
Because the biggest challenge, I see a lot of enterprise secretion today, is that too many products, whether it's point products and other to manage, how to make it working together, manage together, use the management cost is really the issue.
Because the management costs tend be higher than the product cost.
That's where the security fabric tries to get our weave together, linked together, and also working together and to address the whole IT infrastructure instead of just a point in the infrastructure side.
Thanks, Jonathan, and thank you everybody.
The call, obviously, it went long today.
I guess that's the benefit of not having a lot of competing earnings calls today, but we had a lot of questions in the queue.
We will be doing another follow up call at 3.30 PM, so in about half an hour.
If you want to collect more questions and call back in, we're happy to take them.
Thank you very much for being on the call today and we look forward to talking to you later and through the quarter.
