Thanks, <UNK>, and thank you for joining us today.
As you can see on slide number 3 of our presentation, we delivered exceptional results this quarter, led by strong demand across our Business.
Our teams executed very well on our strategic objectives, with record net sales of $994 million and record non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.88 per share, both above the high-end of our expected range.
We increased net sales 23% year over year, and grew our bottom line even faster, with 29% year-over-year growth for non-GAAP EPS.
We were pleased with our return on invested capital of 17.5%.
We were pleased with our strong sales growth, led by large deals in our Barcode & Security segment.
These large deals came primarily from enterprise mobility, our retail channels and a seasonally strong KBZ government quarter.
Our strong quarterly results were driven by the acquisitions we completed during the past 16 months: Imago, Network1, and most recently, KBZ.
A key part of our strategic plan was to combine these acquisitions with our existing business.
This combination of excellent operations and a strong balance sheet has led to accelerated growth and profitability in the markets where we compete.
With the success of our SAP ERP implementation, we now have invested in a platform to support our organic growth and future acquisitions.
The robust IT platform we have implemented will allow us to develop new digital tools to help our customers grow their business.
We believe our customers are interested in ScanSource providing more than just boxes of products.
That is why our Company is evolving from just a product distributor to a technology solutions provider.
With that, I'll turn the call over to <UNK> to discuss our financial results in more detail and our outlook for next quarter.
Thanks, <UNK>.
As you can see on slide 4, and as <UNK> said, we had an exceptional quarter.
Net sales increased 23% year over year.
Non-GAAP EPS grew 29% year over year to a record $0.88 per share.
GAAP EPS grew 33% year over year.
Gross margins were 10.1%, and non-GAAP operating margins were 3.7%.
Our return on the invested capital was 17.5%.
Our results were stronger than expected across our core businesses, as well as recently acquired companies.
Large deals led to higher-than-forecasted sales.
Our gross profit margins were higher from better vendor program recognition in North America POS and barcode, improvements in profitability in Latin America and Europe communications, and a higher services mix in our communications business in North America.
Recently acquired KBZ performed better than expected, due to the combination of the two Companies, and we had a $38 million government deal that generated strong ROIC but at a low gross margin.
We are excited about the investments we have made in our networking businesses to build on the growing demand for networking solutions and connectivity throughout all of our business units.
As of October 1, 2015, we branded ScanSource Security as ScanSource Networking and Security.
With this organizational change and the acquisition of KBZ, we moved some business operations from our Communications & Services segment to our Barcode & Security segment.
We reclassified prior-period results to provide comparable financial information.
This information is available in tables in our press release.
As you can see on slide 5, net sales totaled $994 million compared to $807 million, which is a 5.1% organic growth rate.
The dollar impact on sales due to foreign currency translation was a negative $35 million.
Our presentation includes a summary of constant currency growth, excluding acquisitions, by segment, for the current quarter and year-to-date period.
Our second-quarter 2016 gross profit was $100.6 million, or 10.1% of net sales, compared to $78.1 million, or 9.7% of net sales a year ago.
This reflects a favorable mix and better vendor program recognition.
SG&A expenses, excluding amortization of intangible assets and acquisition costs, were $64.4 million, or 6.48% of net sales, compared to $48.7 million, or 6% of net sales in the prior-year quarter.
SG&A expenses were higher year over year due to increased employee-related expenses, primarily from acquisitions and bad debt expense.
Our second-quarter 2016 non-GAAP operating income was $36.3 million, or 3.7% of net sales, compared to $29.4 million, or 3.6% in the prior-year quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 34.7% for second-quarter 2016, and 35.1% for the prior-year period.
Our estimated annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year is 34.5% to 35%.
Second-quarter 2016 non-GAAP net income was $23.7 million, or $0.88 per diluted share, compared to $19.7 million, or $0.68 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2015.
Foreign currency translation had an estimated $0.04 negative impact when compared to last year.
Total shares outstanding as of December 31, 2015, were 26.4 million, a decrease of approximately 8% from a year ago, from share repurchases.
Average diluted shares for the second quarter of 2016 totaled 26.9 million, down 7% from the year-earlier period as a result of share repurchases.
Now shifting to the balance sheet and capital allocation plan, our working capital measures are referenced on slide 8 in our presentation, and are in line with our normal trends.
We continue to execute our capital allocation plan, and remain disciplined and focused on acquisition opportunities that are strategic, accretive to EPS and increase our ROIC.
The acquisitions we completed during last 16 months were in keeping with our strategic business plan, our value-added model and focus on growing our bottom-line profitability.
Turning to slide 9, at December 31, 2015, we had cash and cash equivalents of $39 million, and debt of $150 million, for a net debt of $76 million.
During the quarter, cash from operations generated $17 million.
We used $30 million of cash for share repurchases during the quarter ended December 31, 2015.
Consistent with our overall financial plan objectives, leverage increased to approximately 0.61 times trailing 12 months EBITDA.
Our return on invested capital totaled 17.5% for the quarter.
This was our highest quarterly ROIC since FY13, due to our stronger profitability for the quarter.
At December 31, 2015, we had repurchased over 2.4 million shares for approximately $90 million, and executed 75% of our authorization as part of a planned capital allocation strategy.
We have now repurchased over 9% of our current outstanding shares.
Now turning to our forecast on slide 10, as a reminder, the quarter ending March 31, 2016 is our seasonally slowest sales quarter.
We expect net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 to range from $850 million to $900 million, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share to range from $0.62 to $0.70 per share.
Foreign currency translation negatively impact sales by approximately $30 million, assuming a stronger dollar compared to the previous quarter a year ago.
The foreign-exchange rates used in our forecast are summarized in our presentation slides.
I'd like to now turn the call back over to <UNK>.
Thanks, <UNK>.
We have two reporting segments, and I'll start with Worldwide Barcode & Security.
Net sales of $690 million increased 26% year over year, or 8% growth in constant currency, excluding acquisitions.
Our POS and barcode businesses in North America and Latin America had record sales quarters in local currency.
It was a strong quarter for big deals for our POS and barcode units across our geographies.
In North America we had a strong big-deal quarter in enterprise mobility and retail technology solutions.
We had another record quarter for payments initiative, more than double over the prior-year quarter.
The EMV Chip and Pin opportunity is still gearing up, with many in the industry estimating that we are 35% to 45% through the upgrade cycle.
We are seeing great returns from our investments to support this fast-growing business opportunity.
In Europe, our team executed very well and beat their sales plan.
Large deals led to the higher-than-expected sales.
However, we see the opportunity to grow our business in certain customer segments, and we are going to be investing more in those areas.
In addition, we are providing our customers some innovative digital tools, such as our PartnerPAD, which we believe will help our customers grow their business in Europe.
We have successfully completed the integration of our Latin America POS and barcode business, due to strong efforts of our local management teams in Brazil, Miami and Mexico.
The sales and support teams have generated profits for the last three quarters, after several years of unprofitable operations in this Latin America business.
We've now achieved the scale and critical mass necessary to achieve sustained profitable operations in the region and meet customer demand with value-added services.
In Brazil, we had another record quarter in local currency.
Net sales in Brazil increased 33% year over year in local currency, but declined 12% when translated into US dollars.
Our customer channels grew, and our strong financial position continues to be a competitive advantage.
We had growth across all product categories, and the receipt printer transition business is still driving growth.
Our networking and security business in North America had excellent growth in our video surveillance, wireless and networking business.
A number of factors are driving the wireless growth, including product upgrades and E-rate spending for schools.
KBZ had outstanding results this quarter.
With over half of its business in the federal government sector, the quarter was seasonally strong following the end of the government's September 30 fiscal year.
Now to our second segment, Worldwide Communications & Services, which had net sales of $304 million.
Net sales increased 17% from a year ago, or a decrease of 0.5% in constant currency, excluding acquisitions.
However, this team did exceed their plan for profits and return on working capital.
In North America, we had good year-over-year growth for many of our unified communications vendors, and a better mix of services.
This was offset by lower enterprise sales and fewer big deals.
During the March quarter, we are working to gain momentum with new unified communication vendors Mitel and Unify, and will also be expanding our services offerings.
For the 12th year in a row, Polycom named ScanSource as Distributor of the Year for North America and EMEA.
In Europe, we had better results from the integration of our Europe communication business and are Imago business.
This led to record sales results in local currency.
The combination of the businesses allows us to achieve critical mass and growing profitability as we expand our business to meet customer demand.
Network1 had a record quarter in local currency, with strong growth in SMB and service providers.
In Latin America, Network1 made solid progress with UC vendors, and also had record sales with our physical security vendors in Mexico.
With our point-of-sale and barcode business, we are the largest HP distributor in Brazil.
And both teams won the HP Distributor of the Year awards for Brazil.
We are very pleased with the execution of our strategic plan, and the strong demand across our business.
We delivered record second-quarter results both for sales and for non-GAAP earnings per share.
Looking ahead, we will continue our focus on profitable growth.
We will now open it up for questions.
I'll try to take that, <UNK>.
This is <UNK>.
For us, it's still new, for us, with their business.
As you know, our scanned stores traditional business in the US was not a strong player in the government space.
We've always had some of our businesses and our vendors doing business with the government.
But that was something that we weren't sure when we acquired KBZ how much that would happen in these first quarters, in basically a little over a quarter.
We do believe, though, that it is a seasonal business.
And that certainly is reflected in our expectations for them for the March quarter.
But we were very pleased with their success.
And for that Company itself, this was an all-time record quarter for their sales.
Yes, it is extremely positive.
When we go back and look at the valuation we put on the business, and we look at what we expected from a contribution margin in EBITDA, they are ahead of plan for the year.
So we are very pleased with that.
The team really has done a great job working with the ScanSource team to combine the strengths of ScanSource and the strength of KBZ, and we believe that's how they were able to perform better than they would have if they were on their own.
Yes, we've made great progress with ERP, and that wasn't really what was driving the inventory.
We wanted to make sure, because of this increased demand that we are seeing, that we had sufficient inventory there to be able to meet the demand.
And the issues related to the ERP, we believe, are pretty much behind us.
No, we do not see any of that.
Thank you
Well, if you look at -- let's start with North America.
We believe that after we went live with our system back in July, we had certainly some bumpy times in that September quarter, that we acknowledged last quarter, that we wanted to make sure we could certainly get through that successfully, and we did.
So we were very pleased that our customer competitiveness is still very strong.
And the way I would characterize that in North America would be that our best customers, our largest customers, are growing their business and they're still performing ScanSource as their distributor.
So we believe from a market share perspective in the US, that we are in a very strong position, that we haven't given up any ground to our competitors as of the end of December.
When I look at all of our other regions, I would say an even stronger comment.
That in Latin America, that not only have we continued to see competitors in Brazil struggle financially, but now that we have, I'll call it, repaired some of the challenges and problems we had in Mexico and Miami, we're seeing market share gains there as well.
So we believe that, that has allowed us to bring in new customers who may not have worked with us in the past, in that region.
And then quickly over to Europe, again, I think we're starting to see a much better operation after three quarters there with SAP.
And we combine that with our acquisition of Imago, which again, has really approved our go-to-market with our European comms business.
We believe the strategic plan that we had laid out, where we were going to grow our communication business across our other two geographies, is now starting to pay off for us.
We were actually -- I would say, no.
We were actually pleased with the demand that we got in the December quarter.
And as we looked at what we would face going into 2016, there are several key areas that continue to look strong -- the payments program that we talked about.
We've described our success with large deals, with what we call the retail technology, which is our larger resellers who are selling solutions into retail.
That was very strong.
Even our mobile computing business continued to be very strong for us.
And we believe that, that's not short-lived; that wasn't just a December phenomenon.
So the feedback from our customers is that they believe they have a strong demand continuing into 2016.
Okay.
I would think so.
We certainly had a strong performance in KBZ without that.
And so if you look at that one transaction, we would hope that by next year, we are continuing to grow that government business.
But I would say, right now, it's certainly a bluebird that was not in our forecast.
And <UNK>, I would just add onto that, that was a low gross-margin business that we took.
It had very high ROI, and that's why we took it.
I don't want you to think that our quarter happened just because of KBZ and what happened there.
That was just part of the story.
Our core business is performing very well.
Well, <UNK>, I think most of the -- on the third quarter has to do with the seasonality of the sales.
The fact that the sales are going down is really what's happening on the guidance there.
We believe it's still a strong year-over-year performance when you look at it, and we are pretty excited about the March quarter and the full year.
Thanks.
I think from the guidance -- <UNK>, this is <UNK>.
I will take it first.
The March quarter has always been our toughest quarter to forecast.
So we go back and look historically, seasonally, it's slower, weaker.
And so it's always one that is has some more risk to the forecast.
So that's why, for us, we always go into this one saying: all right, how much of the demand do we take from December and feel good about that through March.
And it requires us spending a lot of time with not only our customers, but also our key suppliers, and coming up with what we believe is a reasonable number.
But again, we've got what we believe is the right offers in place, so that we can take advantage of whatever demand is out there, and take more market share where possible.
Yes, this past quarter, we doubled the business.
Of course, this was the December quarter, which followed the October liability shift date.
I think when you think about our typical channels where we're selling into, it's not the tier-one retailers, right.
It's not the Walmarts and all the big retailers.
So really, it's the big guys that make these kind of moves first.
So I would say that the market that our customers are going after probably is even less penetrated than that.
So it's a question of the economics for that retailer, as to when they'll make that decision.
But we believe that this should last, frankly, for a couple of years, that it won't happen all in a quarter, or two, or even one year.
It's a multi-year cycle.
Because of the size of the retailers that we cater to, it would be a long time.
Yes, we've had this printer business we called out for probably a couple years now, and it is really driven by the government of each state trying to enforce the tax collections of the retailers.
And over time, the printers that we were selling two years ago, that we called fiscal printers, they kind of run their course.
And the government decided that they would accept a different type of printer technology now.
So there's actually really a replacement or a refresh of the technology that was sold before, and it's happening on a state-by-state basis.
So it happens over time.
And we see this as an ongoing business.
At every quarter, we continue to see that business doing well.
And frankly, the vendors we're working with down there are the right vendors.
We have the key couple of vendors that are producing the technology -- and these are very specially designed printers for that market.
And we're the dominant distributor for that business.
So as long as there's demand, we'll have an unusually large market share in that market.
And what we're finding is, this new printer technology replacing this older fiscal printer technology is really a lower-cost printer, but it requires other components.
So it's more of a solution sell.
So we're seeing still good revenues associated with that, but it's coming from more than one vendor as we are selling that product.
I mean, it still gets you to that range.
We haven't broken out the gross margin that went with the revenue.
But I think you can pretty much figure that out from what we've done.
And again, we've tried to disclose all that information in quite a bit of detail, so it's easy for you guys to follow.
And if you have any questions on that, just follow up with me, and I'll try to walk you through it and hope that it makes sense to you.
Thank you.
Okay, thanks for joining us today.
We expect to hold our next conference call to discuss the March 31 quarterly earnings results on Tuesday, May 10, 2016.
Thank you.
