Actually, the number in 2Q was 26%; the 12% was just presidential.
If you combine presidential and PAC, in Q2 was 26%, and in first quarter that was 60%.
But, <UNK>, that really shouldn't scare you.
That's the number we were really kind of expecting as a result of just -- we had a bunch of primaries in Q2 -- in Q1 where you had multiple, right.
Back then, you had six Republican candidates, you had Bernie Sanders spending and all that.
And then, in Q2, we had very few primaries that garnered much dollars.
Obviously, Hillary started spending towards the back half of the quarter.
Trump had not yet spent, so you can see the dichotomy there.
Those numbers were not alarming to us.
They were kind of what we expected.
I think it will grow, as we said, we expect the presidential to settle in and probably represent 30% or a little bit more than that percent of our total political spending this year.
That's okay.
CapEx for the quarter was -- hold on a second -- was about $7 million for the quarter.
And for the full year, it will be in around $30 million or so.
The List is very profitable for us now, across our group.
And, obviously our ability to scale it just adds more revenue to the bottom line.
What's the potential.
I guess it depends on how good a show we produce.
RightThisMinute, which was, as you know our first foray into the programming space and its partnership with us and Cox and Raycom, is now in 94% of the United States.
It has national distribution, national sales, did very well in the up fronts.
It's clear on the ABC O&Os this September.
So I think we look at The List, The List's ratings in this last season, if you take the 100-plus shows that are in syndication, on adults 25 to 54, The List was ranked number 11.
We've got a really good show here.
You can see from the quality of the cities that we've cleared early that this is a program that we expect is going to continue as we move into 2017 sales and when we take it out to [nappy].
Obviously it has a proven history in syndication.
We think there's a lot of growth still for the show.
And, as I mentioned, it's very profitable and we expect it to continue to be.
It is produced out of our facility in Phoenix.
We've built out some space there.
We're able to control that.
It's not produced in LA or New York.
That's very much by design.
When we were building our shows, we wanted to try and control the costs of the production.
I think we've been able to do that.
I think we're producing a very successful national show, quite frankly, at a fraction of the cost of what you see some of the big shows produced by the networks or the big studios.
I think our business model is intriguing and I think that's why you see a lot of our peers following our footsteps.
And, quite frankly, I think you see some of the production studios even trying to learn more about how we do what we do at such an effective cost.
Hello, <UNK>, it's <UNK>.
Retail was up, low-single digits.
Are you talking about our political number.
Let me take a look here.
I don't know off the top of my head the percentage we have on the books.
Can we get back to you on that, <UNK>.
Versus 2012, I don't have the 2012 numbers in front of me.
Yes, I think if you look at a lot of the -- what's been reported relative to where are the critical states and where we've seen quick ramp-up in terms of spending.
There's really been three primary states reported: Florida, Ohio, and Pennsylvania.
And our footprint's really favorable in those, and those markets are active right now.
We've got two big Ohio markets in Cincinnati and Cleveland.
And there is spending going on now and it's ramping up with new buys being placed on a regular basis.
And then you get to Florida, and that's a great footprint for us, being in West Palm Beach, Tampa, and Fort Myers.
We think that a lot of the focus is going to come down to those three states, and we've got five good stations in two of those states that the spending is happening now, and since the conventions, quickly ramping up there.
And we think Ohio and Florida are going to be two of the battleground if not the battleground states, and we think we're going to remain very consistent with spending through all of third quarter there.
Thanks, Lea.
Thanks to everyone for joining us today and we will talk to you soon.
Have a good day.
