Thank you.
Sure, <UNK>.
This is <UNK>.
We believe the $25 million range, based on what we know today, is an appropriate range.
Typically, what would draw us to the higher end of that range and the lower end of that range would be revenues from our -- both our Security division and our Healthcare division.
The Opto tends to be a bit more predictable.
So it's difficult for us to say whether we will be at that high end of the range or the low end of the range.
But we feel very confident that we should be somewhere within that range.
Our Security in Q4 had an outstanding Q4 last year, as you know, providing a difficult comp.
So, we believe that a good portion of the revenue growth in Q4 of this year will be driven by our Healthcare division.
Yes.
So, each of those numbers, as you've described, are rounded numbers.
Our backlog -- our total backlog at the end of last quarter was about $660 million, and our total backlog at the end of this quarter is about $630 million.
So when you exclude turnkey and take rounding into consideration, the book-to-bill ratio is about 1.0.
So I think maybe that helps with your numbers a little bit.
The answer is yes, <UNK>.
But keep in mind that we have said that the big requirement, what I call Priority One, is Europe.
Because of the deadline of 2020, and the size of the airports, and the replacement cycle, we are saying that the number one priority for us -- and I am sure the competitors feel the same way -- is the European sector for the HBS replacement cycle.
The answer to your other question, yes, Middle East and Asia and even Latin America do have requirements.
And most of the focus that we want to make on and we want to emphasize is, though we have certification for the RTT 80 from the TSA, our feeling is that given the choice and the price difference being insignificant, the RTT 110 will be a preferred product than the RTT 80.
And also if our volume is more towards the RTT 110, we think that that product, in our opinion, is the one that we will capitalize on, compared to the RTT 80.
We are submitting the RTT 110 platform before this calendar year is over.
And, obviously, we have learned a lot and feel better for it.
And hopefully, you are one of the ones who have been asking for many, many quarters, this will be a faster than the RTT 80.
<UNK>, on the different base to answer it, let me understand it, what you're asking.
The -- just the European sector, the replacement for the HBS to the new requirement, are more than 1,000 machines.
And then you add on to the international, and the Latin America and Asia-Pacific, and the ex-Soviet bloc, you can add another 500, 600, 700 machines or more.
And by the time -- the way we all talk about it, the total market world was more than 3,000 machines.
So it's a huge market.
And then you're going to -- you can look at it, the replacement cycle is not going to happen at the same time all over the world.
But Europe is the focus that we are looking at it, because they have a finite deadline and a finite requirement of the ECAC-certified machines to be bought.
Well, we are feeling good after the big successful win at this large airport in Rome.
There are other large tenders out there, actively being pursued.
Anything more than that -- as you know, the Company policy, we won't say it -- but we think we are well-positioned.
And people like our product.
We have some unique improvements over it.
We burn less power.
Our footprint makes less noise and has no moving parts.
So we have some very positive things to offer to the customer.
Yes.
The revenue impact, <UNK>, for the quarter was approximately 2%; $4 million to $5 million from the FX in Q3.
On the bottom line, we actually had a slight benefit due to FX, as a lot of our costs are based in those same currencies.
Yes, it certainly changes a little bit based on today's mix, as you are mentioning.
But at the end of the day, when the dollar strengthens, we do benefit on the bottom line, and we have some headwinds on the top line.
In Q4, we are expecting an even further escalation on the topline, which is partly embedded in the new guidance, where our continued sales in -- particularly in the pound and the euro, but also in other currencies as well, where the dollar has strengthened against, had some adverse headwinds.
Well, as you know, that we don't break it down.
Basically what we are saying is, that as a percentage of the total revenue of Healthcare, we are quite confident that the Arkon product line is well -- just well-settled and people like it.
And it will continue to gain momentum.
I think the patient monitoring and the new product introduction, the AriaTele and some of the other products, and the Arkon, are the primary drivers.
And then we also feel that as we assimilate the AED product line into our international distribution channel, we should start seeing some more positive growth.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you once again for attending our conference call.
We look forward to speaking with you all once again in August for our Q4 and year-end.
Thank you.
