Welcome, and thanks for joining us today.
We are very pleased with the successful execution of the various initiatives supporting our long-term growth plan.
The final quarter of 2016 and the full year provide clear evidence that the trajectory of this execution is ramping up very quickly.
We believe that significant shareholder value is being created by the following five initiatives that are listed on slide 3.
Number one, driving top-line growth in our core residential business ahead of the ongoing increase in housing starts, thereby increasing market share.
Secondly, increasing market share in our commercial business, a space within which we have been inactive for many years, but now focusing on the substantial share gains possible in this very large market.
Third, improving operational efficiency throughout our entire Company to facilitate strong conversion of top-line growth to the bottom line.
Number four, utilizing our dedicated M&A resources to acquire quality companies that add market share and value to both our residential and commercial businesses.
And number five, returning capital not required to fund organic growth and M&A to shareholders efficiently.
So having just wrapped up another quarter and our first full year as an independent public company is a good time to discuss where we are in these initiatives.
Turning to slide 4, regarding the top line, our primary benchmark is 90-day lag housing starts, which were up 4.5% for the year.
TopBuild sales increased 7.8% with the volume component of both TruTeam and Service Partners easily surpassing that benchmark.
Also embedded in those totals are sales in our commercial business which were up almost 11% for the year.
<UNK> will comment further on the detail of our sales activity.
As a reminder, TruTeam is the industry-leading insulation installation company and Service Partners is the industry-leading insulation distribution company.
Leveraging these two creates significant scale advantage, enables us to reach to a very fragmented builder community and is an important differentiator for TopBuild.
Moving on to the conversion of that strong top-line growth to the bottom line, the drop-down to adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was 23.2%, bringing the total year in at 29.4%.
An important driver of that performance was the operational improvements we have implemented throughout our Company.
While these numbers indicate substantial progress in 2016, we believe there's more to come in 2017 and beyond.
<UNK> will talk further about these fundamental operational improvements that are driving this strong margin conversion.
As you can see on slide 5, M&A is an important aspect of our projected growth and our number one capital allocation priority.
As we've commented on prior calls, we have increased dedicated resources to execute on accretive acquisitions.
Our definition of accretive includes not only sound financial fundamentals but also improved share in targeted regions and management talent, all of which, over time, will have a halo effect on overall Company performance.
With the two acquisitions just announced, we have now acquired four companies that fit these criteria in the last six months.
In total, these companies will contribute approximately $41 million of annual revenue and provide some seasoned talent to drive performance.
The further good news here is that the acquisition pipeline is full.
That's very important because for a variety of reasons, not all of those in the pipeline reach the finish line, but we're confident that a steady stream will be completed as we move forward.
Finally, on the subject -- important subject of capital allocation, we believe acquisitions are the best use of capital to drive value for our shareholders.
However, we currently have a conservative balance sheet and an expectation that significant cash generation will continue as we improve our operations within the context of a housing recovery that we believe has several years yet to go.
That will create additional capital available to return to our shareholders.
Therefore, our Board has authorized a $200 million share repurchase program over the next 24 months that we plan to aggressively execute.
Before turning the call over to <UNK> and <UNK>, let me say a few words related to the external environment.
In short, we see it as a net positive.
The new administration in Washington DC has articulated an agenda from tax reform to fewer regulations that is generally positive for US business.
This agenda would only add to the current tailwinds.
More specific to TopBuild, the builder community remains optimistic around the supply and demand fundamentals.
Household formations continue to increase and the pent-up demand for new construction may take several years to satisfy.
So this external environment, largely beyond our control, shapes up as a big positive for TopBuild.
In addition, we have previously discussed top-line, bottom-line, M&A and capital-allocation initiatives that are under our control.
We believe the result will be significant top- and bottom-line growth in 2017 and beyond and value creation for our shareholders.
Let me now turn the call over to <UNK>.
Thanks, <UNK>.
As <UNK> pointed out, results for the fourth quarter and full year were strong.
The operational improvements we have made at TopBuild over the past 18 months continue to deliver outstanding results through solid growth, expanding margins and cash generation.
Turning to slide 6, total revenue in the fourth quarter increased 4.1% to $444 million and grew 7.8% to $1.7 billion for the full year.
This was driven primarily by a residential and commercial growth at both businesses and improved pricing at TruTeam, partially offset by lower pricing at Service Partners.
On a reported basis, fourth-quarter gross margin declined 80 basis points to 23.7%.
As you may recall, in the fourth quarter of 2015, we had a one-time favorable reserve adjustment related to an employee benefit policy change at TruTeam totaling $9.9 million, of which $6 million was included in cost of goods sold.
Excluding this one-time adjustment, fourth-quarter gross margin increased 60 basis points from fourth quarter 2015.
For the full year, adjusted gross margin was 23%, up 120 basis points.
Our fourth-quarter adjusted operating margin was 8.3% compared to 7.8% in the fourth quarter of 2015.
For the full year, our 2016 adjusted operating margin was 7.2%, a 160 basis point improvement from 2015.
Improvements in both gross margin and operating margin were due to improved pricing at TruTeam, lower material costs, improved labor efficiency and volume leverage, partially offset by lower Service Partners pricing, higher insurance costs, higher stock-based compensation and higher bonus expense.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $42.1 million, a 10.8% improvement year over year.
Full-year adjusted EBITDA was $144.5 million, a 34.5% improvement from 2015.
Incremental EBITDA margin for the quarter was a strong 23.2% and 29.4% for the full year.
This significant pull-through was a direct result of the greater operational efficiencies we continue to deliver across the entire organization.
Processes and procedures have been streamlined and optimized, unprofitable branches have been closed and redundant positions eliminated.
Now let's turn to segment results.
As you can see on slide 7, our TruTeam segment had an outstanding year with revenue growing 8.8%, exceeding lagged housing starts.
The increase was driven by volume growth in both residential and commercial along with improved selling prices.
Adjusted operating margin for TruTeam in 2016 was 8.6%, compared to 5.1% in 2015, an outstanding 350 basis point improvement.
The gains were driven by improved pricing, better labor utilization, lower material costs and volume leverage on our national footprint.
Moving to the next slide, Service Partners 2016 revenue increased 4.7% to $677 million, primarily driven by a 7% increase in volume, partially offset by a 2.3% selling price decline due primarily to lower fiberglass material costs from excess supply in the industry.
2016 adjusted operating margin for Service Partners was 8.9%, a 20 basis point improvement from prior year.
During the fourth quarter, Service Partners was able to balance the relationship between selling price and material costs, facilitating a 20 basis point operating margin expansion.
As we have previously discussed, the Service Partners model is more variable cost driven and does not leverage to the same extent as TruTeam.
Despite that, and notwithstanding the challenging industry dynamics driven by excess capacity, Service Partners delivered strong growth in operating margins above an already strong 2015.
TopBuild's reported fourth-quarter SG&A increased $7.6 million, or 12.3%, to $69.1 million primarily as a result of the prior-year, one-time favorable reserve adjustment related to an employee benefit policy change at TruTeam, of which $3.8 million impacted SG&A, as well as higher stock-based compensation, bonus expense and legal settlements.
As a percentage of sales, SG&A was 15.6% compared to 14.4% a year ago.
For the 12 months, SG&A as a percentage of sales was 16% versus 17% a year ago.
This decrease is a direct result of lower corporate expenses and cost savings initiatives we have implemented over the past year, partially offset by the items I just mentioned.
Turning to slide 9, on an adjusted basis, income per diluted share from continued operations was $0.59 for the fourth quarter compared to $0.52 for the prior year.
For the full year on an adjusted basis, income per diluted share from continuing operations was $1.96 compared to $1.33 for full year 2015, a very healthy 47.4% improvement.
Our actual tax rate for the fourth quarter 2016 was 38.6% and the full year finished at 37.6%.
We continue to believe the normalized tax rate for the business is 38%.
As you can see on slide 10, reinvested to support our growth remains very moderate.
We reinvested $14.2 million in capital spending, below our investment guidance of approximately 1% of sales.
Working capital as a percent of sales at the end of the fourth quarter was 7.3% compared to 6.2% a year ago.
The 110 basis point increase is the result of a combination of higher accounts receivable due to an increase in our commercial business and a change in supplier and material mix which has led to some reduction versus our historical AP balances.
We would advise on a year-end target of approximately 7% of sales when modeling working capital in 2017.
At the end of December, we had cash and cash equivalents of $134.4 million and availability under our revolving credit facility of $75.9 million for total liquidity of $210.3 million.
Our total debt to adjusted EBITDA was 1.25.
Before turning the call over to <UNK>, I want to briefly discuss the $200 million two-year share repurchase program we announced today.
We remain committed to a blended capital allocation approach emphasizing accretive acquisitions first and share repurchase second.
As our recent M&A activity demonstrates, we have an active program with a good pipeline that we expect will deliver strong results now and in the future.
That said, our ample liquidity, moderate leverage and the ability to generate strong free cash flow led the Board to authorize the $200 million share repurchase.
We view this as an effective vehicle to return capital to our shareholders, while at the same time optimizing and resetting our capital structure, and we expect be aggressive in utilizing the Board authorization.
We are excited about delivering strong shareholder returns through our blended approach.
<UNK>.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Good morning, everyone.
I would like to begin my remarks by thanking all of our TopBuild, TruTeam and Service Partners employees for their hard work, dedication and focus on working safely, servicing our customers and continuing to push for operational excellence throughout our Company.
We have accomplished a lot this past year for our shareholders and customers and I'm proud to be part of this energized and very engaged team.
Turning to slide 11, our Company today is more efficient, more focused and more aggressive.
We're growing market share, building upon our strong customer relationships and expanding our commercial capabilities while optimizing our footprint.
Operational efficiency has been a key focus since our July 2015 spinoff.
We have made great strides in this area.
We continually evaluate our footprint across the country, optimize our coverage and operations.
As in 2016, at times this leads to branch closures that are either in nonstrategic, slow growth markets, or represent some redundancy in our footprint.
We are also adding new branch locations either through acquisitions or organic growth.
In 2016 we also made decisions to eliminate headcount at our branch support center in Daytona.
We continually look for opportunities to drive efficiencies and we recently made the move to combine some of our back office operations.
We anticipate incurring approximately $2 million to $2.5 million in expenses related to these actions and expect a pay back in savings in less than two years.
Initiatives to increase labor productivity have also been successful.
Even small improvements leveraged across our installer base of over 5,000 can deliver significant savings to our bottom line.
This improved productivity is a distinct advantage for our business as the industry faces labor constraints.
Our hiring process has improved dramatically, and new installers can be on the job in 24 hours instead of the 4 to 5 days it used to take.
And it should be noted, we're still performing the extensive background checks required of all employees prior to joining our team.
In this tight labor market, we feel we are taking proactive steps that are allowing us to grow our business and provide great local service to our customers.
All of these initiatives, as well as others, are in large part responsible for the significant improvement we've seen in our incremental EBITDA and adjusted operating margins.
We continue to be relentless in the area of operational excellence.
We have made some changes at Service Partners, including the appointment of Sean Cusack as president of this business.
Sean served in a number of senior roles with Service Partners for 15 years prior to his brief departure in 2015, and we're thrilled to have him back on our team.
Sean is well on his way to driving positive change within Service Partners that will deliver both short-term and long-term results.
Enhancements to our management team continue to yield solid results.
We believe we have the best operators leading our business and driving the strategy to deliver growth in both the residential and commercial businesses.
Our energized regional and branch leadership teams helped increase 2016 sales at TruTeam by 8.8% -- well ahead of lagged starts.
Volume growth at Service Partners last year was a healthy 7%.
Moving to the next slide, in 2017, our TruTeam results will be bolstered by the addition of four acquisitions, three of which were completed in the past 60 days: Midwest Fireproofing, EcoFoam and MR Insulfoam.
Combined, these four acquisitions are expected to contribute almost $41 million of revenue this year.
These companies complement our growth strategy with experienced management teams and strong customer relationships.
We are confident they will significantly enhance our footprint and market share in their respective regions.
As both <UNK> and <UNK> have mentioned, we have significantly ramped up our M&A capabilities and are pleased with our robust pipeline of acquisition targets and the progress being made to close deals.
I think it is important to point out that as we evaluate our acquisition opportunities, we're particularly focused on deals that are appropriately accretive to our existing footprint and current operations, our strategic growth initiatives and deals that leverage our scale advantages in a meaningful way.
We have a team of industry veterans now dedicated 100% to executing our M&A strategy -- our number one capital allocation priority.
On the commercial front, TruTeam achieved solid revenue growth of 13% for 2016 with this business now accounting for approximately 18% of our total TruTeam revenue.
Midwest Fireproofing, acquired in January, expands our product offerings and opens the door to a broad array of well-established contractor relationships.
Looking at 2017, we are extremely excited about our prospects for profitable growth at both TruTeam and Service Partners.
During our last call, I talked about price increases announced by the fiberglass manufacturers that were to take effect in January.
While these increases have not been to the manufacturers' announced thresholds, we have seen some traction with increase in our local markets.
Assuming positive housing trends continue and the labor market remains tight, we expect both businesses will see stronger selling prices this year.
We also believe that we will see a good uptick in our single-family business as the single-family starts growth is strong.
Our team is focused on continuing to grow market share, including custom builder business, increasing our share of spray foam with our installation and distribution businesses, as well as identifying additional areas that will continue to enhance our operational efficiencies.
I will now turn the call back over to <UNK> for some summary comments.
To put a wrap on our opening comments, we're very confident.
External environments are positive and should remain that way, and we have a business model that includes both installation and distribution as a differentiator, have a set of strategic initiatives that are simple and direct, and most importantly, a team that is executing well.
For all those reasons, we expect 2017 to be another year of significant growth for TopBuild.
Operator, we are now ready for questions.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Good morning, <UNK>.
This is <UNK>.
So obviously a great quarter -- Q1 of 2016.
I would say right now we are very busy across the footprint.
Spring selling season, as we talked to our builder customers, has been strong and off to a good start for them as well.
So the builders, in general, are optimistic.
So we expect absolutely a positive comp to last year.
Backlogs relative to commercial look at good as well.
So I would say we're very positive and very optimistic here as we're finishing up the second month of the quarter.
Again, this is <UNK>, <UNK>.
I think we feel good about that.
We are doing a great job of growing the business on distribution in some of the key strategic areas that <UNK> mentioned.
If I think about commercial, nice growth on the commercial side on the distribution.
If I think about spray foam -- a key thing that we have been driving relative to TopBuild.
We saw nice growth in those areas in the distribution business last year as well.
So, no, we feel like there absolutely should be nice buying growth on the distribution side here in 2017 as well.
<UNK>, one thing I would add to that -- this is <UNK> talking -- is that is that for the kind of reasons we've spoke about, Service Partners is a real key element to our overall model.
They provide a lot of balance.
In a full cycle, full housing cycle, we know from history that Service Partners is a real important piece to have to our puzzle.
But even aside from that, we view Service Partners going forward as a growth vehicle.
You can look for us to be more aggressive relative to the kind things we may do with that model -- it is more, it is not just a defensive piece of our portfolio.
But we are going to be viewing that as much more aggressively, looking to understand things that we can do.
And our M&A pipeline could include some aspects of distribution.
That's certainly not off the table at all.
And there's lots of things we can do with that model.
And our Sean Cusack, our new president there, is going to get a lot of attention from -- probably more attention than he cares to get from <UNK> and others here as we chart a path forward for Service Partners that we are optimistic about.
<UNK> here, <UNK>.
I would say that one thing I think that is a bit unique about us, we have a fairly mature national footprint.
So not always but generally when we are acquiring a company, we typically have an operation in that geography.
So in many cases what we're doing is understanding how we can combine the acquired company with our existing operation there.
Now that is not always true, but I would say more often than not it is.
And so what we're doing is finding a way to obtain any synergy that we can from a back-office standpoint while at the same time not disturbing the go-to-market and the customer we're facing.
Because one of the things we look at and we look for with an acquired company is a strong brand and lasting thing in the world we want to do is to disrupt that customer approaching.
So it is looking at ways to synergize with our existing operations and that's the relationship to the acquisition world.
But even aside from that, as <UNK> spoke to in his prepared comments, it has been a huge focus of ours coming out of our previous world with Masco as the parent company.
We really did turn ourselves loose on thinking about all kinds of things differently and as a result of that, we have driven some nice improvements in efficiency in 2016.
Now I will tell you that it is going to be hard to top the trajectory of what we did in 2016.
But we still believe we have further improvements to make and we are all about looking at ourselves -- and this relates to not only the branches, this also relates to our various corporate centers which we now call branch support centers because that is how we view ourselves here in Daytona.
Our purpose in life here is to support our branches and help them make money.
So it is about an overall Company mindset here relative to how to improve our cost model.
We would.
We have an open mind relative to what to do with service partners going forward and how to grow it.
If some key ways of looking at that, <UNK>, would be -- it would have to be something that we think either from a margin perspective or from a return on assets perspective would be good news for us.
So it's got to be something that is financially sound and typically, what leads to making that happen is something that we could be significant enough with where we would have a reasonable purchasing advantage from that perspective.
So that's one thing.
But we have a footprint on the Service Partners side that is broad.
So we have over 75 branches in Service Partners and there are situations that even exist today whereby we do something at a particular branch because there is a unique set of circumstances with a customer or whatever whereby we can do something effectively.
And we are already doing that.
And we certainly will be looking forward to continuing to do that on selective basis.
And then to your question directly, if there is something that we can come up with or something that we are looking at that could be a broader approach to add to our insulation world there, we will certainly be looking at doing that.
<UNK>, this is <UNK>.
Yes, I think we expect in both businesses to see that we've -- as there was growth last year in housing, we expect growth, obviously, again this year in housing, which impacts capacity.
Obviously some maintenance going on in the industry relative to furnaces -- that type of thing.
So we expect it to be positive on both businesses.
<UNK>, this is <UNK>.
It was basically all price for the most part.
So I think we reported a 2.3% decline for the year and 2.8% for the quarter.
And that was basically all price -- most of that in fiber glass pricing.
You are welcome.
Thank you for your support.
Please follow up with us regarding any remaining questions.
And we look forward to talking to you in early May when we report our first quarter 2017 results.
