Thank you, Andrew.
Joining me on the call today is <UNK> <UNK>, our Chief Executive Officer.
Let me get the required language out of the way.
During the course of this call we will make forward-looking statements, which are based on beliefs and assumptions made by information currently available to us.
Our actual results will be affected by known and unknown risks, trends, uncertainties and factors that are beyond our control or ability to predict.
Our assumptions are not a guarantee of future performance and some will prove to be inaccurate.
For a more detailed description of some potential risks, please refer to our SEC filings, which can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
All of the information presented on this call is current as of today, May 9.
In addition, reconciliation to non-GAAP financial measures presented on this call such as FFO and AFFO can be found in the Company's supplemental report, which can be obtained also on the Investor Relations section of our website.
With that, I turn the call over to <UNK>.
Thank you, <UNK>.
And thank you for joining the call today.
The existing portfolio performed as planned during the quarter, notably Darden was upgraded by all three rating agencies recently and is now rated BBB flat, BBB flat and Ba3.
Our focus in the first quarter of the year was refining our investment strategy and building out our investment team.
We made significant progress on both fronts.
One acquisition team member on-boarded recently and a second is joining in a few weeks.
We are exceptionally pleased with the individuals we are bringing on.
Josh, who is with us today, joined us a few weeks ago from Goldman Sachs' Investment Banking Real Estate team and before that, Harvard.
Patrick, the individual who is joining in a few weeks, was the primary mid-level Investment Banker at JP <UNK> who worked on the spinoff transaction.
He knows Four Corners inside and out and we have had a great working relationship for a year and a half.
While we have not closed any acquisitions to date, we have been very active in building a pipeline and screening deals.
We have a number of properties under a letter of intent to purchase and still more under negotiation.
We will announce acquisitions, even individual property purchases, soon after they close.
For competitive reasons, we'd prefer not to do so before that.
All of these transactions will be very consistent to the strategy we have laid out in our investor presentation and in numerous investor meetings.
The market for single tenant net lease remains competitive, but we are seeing some sensible investments.
Obviously as our cost of capital has improved, we are seeing more transactions that are quality credit and real estate, and are accretive to our long-term cost of capital.
Let me now turn it over to <UNK> for a few comments on the first-quarter financial results.
Thank you, <UNK>.
I have a couple of comments on the results.
First, cash rental income without rent leveling on our existing rental portfolio of 418 properties leased to Darden was $23.7 million for the quarter.
I remind everybody that rents will increase annually by 1.5% for all 418 properties, each November starting this year.
Second, in accordance with GAAP, the weighted average share calculation reflects the incremental 17.1 million shares that we issued to shareholders as part of the earnings and profits distribution in March, as if they had been outstanding for the entire first quarter.
Total common shares outstanding are now 59.8 million shares, including the 17.1 million shares distributed.
Third, as we have discussed before, we had a non-cash $80 million gain from the reversal of a deferred tax liability now that we are operating as a REIT and have completed our pre-REIT earnings and profit distribution.
The gain was backed out in our reported funds from operation, in line with NAREIT guidance.
With respect to our cash G&A expenses, we continue to feel comfortable with approximately a $10 million target for 2016 G&A expenses, after excluding non-cash stock compensation.
As outlined in our earnings release, our results were higher than this run rate in the first quarter given one-time costs related to launching operations and reporting for the Company, including the special distribution and other expenses like our 2015 audit fee, which while expected couldn't be expensed until 2016 when the services were provided.
On interest expense, I would point out that we recognized $380,000 in non-cash interest expense that was principally due to the portion of the mark-to-market losses on our hedging instruments deemed ineffective, and resulting from the flattening of the short-term forward curve rate in the first quarter.
We adjust for these type of non-cash gains and losses when computing our cash AFFO earnings.
On a related note, our coverage ratios remained strong with cash interest coverage of 6 times, and net debt to cash EBITDA at quarter end of 4.9 times.
While our current low leverage will increase as we begin to draw on our four-year $350 million revolver to initially finance acquisitions, our philosophy remains to maintain a ratio of less than six times debt to EBITDA.
Finally, a reminder to everyone that we are not providing guidance on acquisition levels or FFO and AFFO for the year, which is highly dependent on acquisition levels.
However, we are reconfirming our belief that our current portfolio will produce approximately $1.18 in AFFO per share, consistent with prior 8-K filings.
With that, let me turn it back to Andrew to open up the lines for Q&A.
Sure.
Great question, R.
J.
Without getting too specific on our current pipeline for competitive reasons, I don't view a transaction closed until it's closed.
We're looking at one acquisition where a franchisee is selling his business and real estate to another franchisee, and we're stepping in coterminous with the closing of the business sale, that was an off-market transaction.
We're seeing some individual properties that have been marketed where trade buyers have fallen out of contract and we are coming in at pricing that isn't as attractive but has a higher level [of surety] of close.
And these are primarily QSR, nationally known QSR brands.
Sure.
Well I'll take the last question first, investment committee includes four out of the five Board members.
We've had a couple of investment committee meetings.
As far as screening, we've just built a simple module to screen properties quickly on criteria related to credit.
That's things like rent to sales, the guarantor's financials and real estate, things like location and reuse potential.
So nothing overly complex but just taking the time to make sure that our initial investments are sensible and on message.
Thanks, R.
J.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Perhaps by the end of the year, but for now we are pretty focused on on-boarding these folks effectively and I think we're pretty good for now.
I'm not going to get into the size of the pipeline but I would say that our pricing is in the mid 6s to low 7s.
And that's a cash divided by the purchase price.
And as far as brands, these are nationally known brands that have decade long histories.
Yes, I think it's clear that Texas is a relatively challenging operating environment and I think it's clear that San Antonio is outperforming meaningfully more oil dependent areas of Texas.
We try to keep it simple.
Very simply, it's as required by GAAP.
Because of the size of the distribution we had to deem it as if it was a stock split and that requires us to count the shares as outstanding for the entire quarter, which is quite frankly the right way to look at it anyway.
One, OP units is a meaningful driver, another was a franchisee that I have a relationship with going back several months.
Others are simply fully marketed properties, so it's all across-the-board.
We're a much smaller company than our competitors and so individual transactions, even if they're not very significant, will have a more -- a larger impact and so we sort of take transactions from all different angles.
Many properties, there is a broker involved and we think that's fine.
Just there can be different levels of how much of our property is marketed.
You know, I would look at it a different way, which is we have a pretty specific understanding of how much we can acquire within our stated leverage limits.
And given that, we wanted to make sure that we had a very sensible investment strategy and was well organized.
And if that took us a couple extra months to do that, to bring on the right people so we can diligence assets effectively, then we were willing to spend that time.
Now we've brought some folks on board, we're training them, so clearly the second half of the year given our cost of capital and the market being constant, I think you'll see more activity.
Beginning of November, November 1.
Thanks.
I have no comment in that regard.
Operator, next question.
Thank you, everyone.
Look forward to any follow-up questions that you may have.
Thank you.
Thanks, everyone.
