Given that we're approaching the top of the hour, operator, we'll take one more question.
Steve, I'll start and certainly you can jump in.
Brand inflation is -- I called out that our LIFO is pretty significant and, again, that's driven off that brand inflation, because we just carry so much brand inflation -- brand inventory.
But it's -- I called out, <UNK>, that it's in the mid-teens and that's up over the last few years.
We used to be kind of 10% to 12%.
At least for the inventory that we carry for our customers and our mix, it may be different for others, but at least for our inventory, we're kind of in the mid-teens.
And I really can't comment on how long that will last or kind of go forward.
I just know what we have experienced.
Our LIFO is based off of our drug company and their inventory, our specialty businesses, not on LIFO.
So they don't factor into that.
But they have also -- as an aside, they have also seen some -- some price increases on the brand side in that business as well.
Those ASP drugs, they tend to be smaller and maybe more frequent.
That increase is there, but it's harder in ASP environment to take a double-digit price increase because your customers would be underwater.
But it's also just newer therapies coming in and comparable therapies that have been in the market for a while, looking at their price opportunity.
So nothing really that different than maybe a little bit stronger than we had expected.
So please tell me that we're still looking at the GAAP numbers, <UNK>, so.
No, we did our monthly review for the Drug Company and we look at -- we don't just look at the revenues.
We look at units and we are very focused on this in our key area of how we value customers is around compliance with contracts.
So -- and honestly some of the customers that are most interesting to us, Post, Walgreens, World, are the ones where we have big generic opportunity.
So we are very focused on this.
<UNK>, I see you have an additional comment.
Yes, I would just say, <UNK>, remember that we do carry a fair amount of generic inventory, but as we've talked about in the past, generic price increases are on a relatively lower percentage of that inventory.
And you just never know how that is going to impact your inventory, which items are going to increase.
It's not across the entire portfolio where, with brand, it tends to be -- at some point during the year, it tends be across the portfolio.
On ProGen, we're very bullish about the value that we provide.
And, again, it's a very innovative model and Peyton and her team are focused on driving that everyday value and creating value for the suppliers along, too.
I think it's not all about pricing.
So it's about quality of supply.
And some of the recent generic launches we've been able to get our customers supply which has been very much appreciated by them.
I think that's wraps up, <UNK>, the last question.
I'll just end by saying that we're proud of the nine months that we reported for fiscal 2015.
These are definitely stellar numbers that our associates have produced.
So let me just wrap up by saying that passion, innovation and partnership drive everything we do at AmerisourceBergen.
Our work is centered on being strategically relevant, economically competitive and easy to do business with.
We believe our relationships with our customers and suppliers are excellent and we do not take them for granted.
Rather our goal is to tirelessly look for continuous improvements in our offering to our customers to enhance patient access and adherence.
We appreciate your time this morning and hope you have found this information useful.
Thanks very much.
Thank you, Steve.
And before we go, I would like to highlight that we'll be attending the <UNK> W.
Baird Healthcare Conference in New York on September 10 and also the Morgan Stanley Healthcare Conference in New York on September 16th.
Thank you for joining us today and with that I'll turn it back to the operator.
