Well, <UNK>, it's primarily the inventory that we brought in when we acquired Stability Biologics.
But much lesser degree.
We have a little bit of an increase in inventory of the MiMedx products, but that's really driven by the new products that we're introducing in the second half of the year.
So the combination of those things -- those two things really contributed to the growth.
It was a little over $4 million.
<UNK>, also on top of that, it still had some issues with products that have not been contracted on FSS that had been brought in on consignment and so forth, so that they haven't been through -- in some cases, they hadn't been through the proper contracting process.
So basically, their controls weren't as tight as they needed to be.
With our products having an FSS schedule, we actually meet the requirements that they're looking for.
But as sometimes happens with some of these government agencies, when they come through and make some changes, there are some confusion that happens with various entities and it just takes them a while to work through that.
But I think in the long run, it's actually going to be a good benefit to us, because we have contracted through the appropriate process and it's been a negotiated national rate on the prices there.
In the quarter, let me get back to you with that in a minute, <UNK>.
It was prior to, just prior to.
Well, the first thing is <UNK>, we've made a conservative effort to bring in associate account executives.
So we bring them in.
They assist with a territory and an account executive.
And then they will transition in that 6- to 12-month period, where they take on their own full territory.
So by design, we know that we have areas that we're still underpenetrated.
And so this is a process that we're utilizing to transition into new territories effectively.
So by definition, that's going to cause our productivity, as you look at it from that perspective to look like it's slowing, but it's again an investment for the future.
And again, as they become their own territories, then we see that ramp up.
<UNK>, in answer to your question, $1.8 million.
Yes.
Well, we certainly think we are.
And again, I've never in my public company life seen a company that seems to have so many troubles.
So that does reflect somewhat in the marketplace.
Thank you.
Well, I hope this has been informative.
You know, you're free to call us.
If you have additional questions, please do so.
Meantime, management will go back to work and continue to make this growth very, very sustainable.
Thank you very much.
