Thank you.
Yes, we can, <UNK>.
Hi, <UNK>.
This is <UNK>.
Thanks for your question.
It really has to do with the fact that our service cloud Rescue and Bold have the kind of highest non-US customer base compared to all our other products, so the FX impact is a little more pronounced in that cloud.
Hello, <UNK>.
This is <UNK>.
No seasonality, and with regard to -- I'm sorry, with regard to margins, no, so fully -- we're going to make some investments into that business and even with those investments, there will be no impact on our margin, our overall margin.
Okay.
Thanks, <UNK>.
This is <UNK>.
Yes, join.
me is continuing to grow very strongly, as you said.
It really, for join.
me, it's all about engagement as it is for any premium product that has a viral component.
And video has really contributed to that in a couple of ways.
One, it's leading the larger meetings with more participants, which means more people get exposed to join.
me.
Secondly, on a month-to-month basis, we've seen double-digit increase in the usage of video in the join.
me base.
And while we don't disclose specific numbers, we've also seen some acceleration in the top of funnel metrics.
So we do feel in addition to those, it's making us more competitive in sales situations where video is a requirement.
So I think it's still early days, but we have been pleased with the impact of video has had, and puts us in a good competitive position.
<UNK>, we'll include that in the ITM management cloud.
You're welcome.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Thank you for your questions tonight.
LogMeIn had another very good quarter in Q3, and we believe we made significant progress on our three key strategic growth initiatives.
join.
me's growth continues to drive Company growth while opening the door to a broader collaboration opportunity.
LastPass gives us a leading position in a high-growth market while accelerating our identity and access management strategy.
And Xively's increasingly high profile and early traction have positioned us well to capitalize on our longer term IoT opportunity.
The team looks forward to sharing our continued progress when we report our Q4 and full-year results in February 2016.
Thank you, again, for your time this evening.
