I do not believe that this has anything to do with the move of the production itself; it goes very smoothly.
It is over, at least we supply from the new plant seamless, it is really quite -- there is no interruption for the customer, the customer has not suffered whatsoever.
It was done properly.
At the moment we do suffer from the weakness in computers there is no question because this is a traditional place.
And we work on growing our automotive of part of the business.
But I do admit that this by far, the others look very good, the other lines that this is [still just] performance.
<UNK>, we compare naturally knowing the history that not only we have in the last years but of course we compare the performance vis-a-vis prior years.
And the picture this year is definitely better than the prior years so we are confident to meet the projection in the third quarter.
As I said the strategy hasn't changed a bit.
We're looking for reasonable acquisitions and continue to do so.
But on the other hand they must be available so we are looking.
We are looking across the board that means in all of our product lines and in all geographies.
But it has to make sense and of course we have always a few candidates that are evaluated.
But it is really too early to talk about these opportunities which may come.
I think we all were right in anticipating a further decline.
The decline has slowed down.
There's no question about it, but still it declines.
Not in a substantial form as it has been since quite some years but to see a recovery maybe for instance.
I would not say that at all.
Seasonally it has been stronger in the second quarter than before, but the real recovery is something else.
Maybe it has bottomed out, but who knows.
Many projections were too early in that sense it was quite a few years that expected to be bottoming out, and then it didn't happen.
One thing is for sure that the decline became less steep, there is no question.
No, not really to us.
We are just observers.
We do feel it not only us, we do feel that our customers have substantial price [hikes] at the moment which is just a plain statement I think.
You are talking distribution and POS [divided] by POA, right.
Approximately 1.02.
POS was up by 2.5%.
And the orders on our distributors were up by 3%.
Slight, very slight.
Yes.
Thank you.
Thank you, <UNK>a.
Thank you for your interest in Vishay Intertechnology.
I will turn the call back to you, <UNK>a.
