<UNK>, I'll give you a macro comment and then <UNK> can follow-up, if she wants.
I was at FMI last week and one of the things that seemed to be pretty broad based across a number of retailers, and as I was hearing comments across manufactures, is that people were optimistic in terms of their plans.
And I felt as though people were looking to really invest in their business from a merchandising standpoint and promotion.
I'm really speaking about retailers as they were talking to us as well as others.
So, I felt really good that people really wanted to go out and execute against good plans.
It didn't feel quite as conservative, I would say, as it did the previous year.
I just took that as a fairly optimistic tongue, that people see their destiny is in their hands and they are going to go execute against their business.
I don't know, <UNK>, if you want to add to that.
Yes, thanks.
You're right, we do have the amortization of barkTHINS.
We had some of it in 2016.
We'll have it in 2017.
Overall we're really pleased with the way that integration is going.
We've been particularly doing well with the synergy part of it, the supply chain savings that have come in greater than we expected.
So, we feel really good about that acquisition.
<UNK>, we'll talk to a lot of this on March 1, especially some more detail around what some of these IT investments are at the business level to ensure people are working most efficiently as possible, as well as at the corporate level.
So, I think you're going to see a little bit of both.
I don't want to get out ahead of ourselves on March 1 here, but there's a lot of things in the market changing very faster than they ever have before.
And we're trying to bring solutions to retailers and be where the customer is going.
So, I think you'll see more of this on March 1.
Yes.
We'll share some specific examples.
Okay, operator.
We'll end the call here.
We thank everybody for their participation.
And we'll be available for any follow-up calls that you may have.
Thank you.
