Hi, <UNK>.
You too.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Well, we definitely have been very focused on keeping our Goldfish programming strong.
I think that business is hitting on all cylinders with good advertising, a good promotional program, and the right proposition for millennials parents and their children.
So we continue to be pretty excited about our Goldfish business.
And I think that mothers still feel like that is a very positive snacking for their children.
I think we need -- we have more work to do on cookies, and we're working on that as we speak.
We do have new leadership right now in the Pepperidge Farm business, and that team is really coming together and focusing on the next wave of innovation ideas.
And I'm not sure there's anything more to add to that.
Yes.
So as I mentioned, we did term out some of the debt portfolio in the recent past, taking advantage of relatively low fixed rates.
We have a sizeable backstop credit facility against the commercial paper program, and we're fairly comfortable with the level of CP we have in the marketplace today.
I mean, clearly, what's happening in the credit markets, we continue to look at that, and to evaluate alternatives, whether to term out some of that CP, or whether the use of the derivative market to convert some of that floating exposure to fixed.
But that's an ongoing thing that we continue to assess here.
You're welcome.
All right.
Thank you, Stephanie.
From all of us at Campbell, Happy Thanksgiving, everyone.
Thanks for joining our call.
A full replay will be available about two hours after our call concludes by going online or calling 1-703-925-2533.
The access code is 1665411.
You have until December 8 at midnight, at which point all of our earnings calls will be strictly on the website under news and events.
If you have any further questions please call me, <UNK> <UNK> at 856-342-6081.
If you are a reporter with questions, please Carla Burigatto, Director of External Communications at 856-342-3737.
This concludes today's program.
Thank you.
