I would expect that, through the balance of the year, we will continue to see improving results.
And --
In the back part of the year, <UNK>, right.
Not to our expectations, no.
That's correct.
(multiple speakers) We expect to be positive in Q2.
Yes.
We expect to do better.
I think you are going to see an improvement, a steady improvement, in Q2.
And then hopefully, you see more meaningful improvements in Q3 and Q4.
And what I was really referring to, Rob, is more from a historical perspective.
I think we get into historical return levels by Q3.
Yes.
Correct.
Yes.
And -- yes, correct.
Just we're seeing -- just so everyone is clear.
We are seeing strength in our businesses in the commercial markets.
We see opportunities in the Airlift market.
We have softness in the Defense spending for our Mobility businesses.
That would be, I would say, a general overview of our businesses And we would expect that the supply chain business will continue to improve, as well as the MRO businesses.
And we see a little bit of choppiness, though, in the Airlift business.
We feel better about that once we have the Falklands contract operating, versus spending money to get ready for it to operate.
I think that's a good way to look at it.
Yes, we've predicted close to bottom before.
And --
And we've surprised ourselves.
So what I would like to do is just wait and see how the government reacts to all the different skirmishes and activity around the world.
Right now, they have been very passive, as you know, and that has impacted our business.
If, in fact, troop levels stay steady or strengthen, and we actually put troops -- move troops around, then it should spell opportunity for our business.
But we have been a little bit surprised at the softness, and don't know precisely if we are at bottom.
But maybe <UNK> <UNK>, maybe you can give a little bit more color on that, if you don't mind.
<UNK> <UNK>.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for your attendance today, and thanks for your very thoughtful questions.
We remain very excited about our business.
Feel really good about our position, feel really very positively about our balance sheet, and the opportunity pool that we are looking at.
So look forward to our next call, and hope everyone has a great day.
All the best.
