It does include the product from Kanjoya.
Vestrics is more inside the system.
But no -- couldn't be happier with the people, with what they've produced, and they've become family in a very short period of time.
And they've contributed, in the very short period of time we've rolled out, especially the Kanjoya product, in a very short period of time.
So, can't imagine how we could be happier with it.
When I said 10% back to the base, that includes managed services.
So, it's about -- probably about 5% of our revenue is managed services.
It's the same solution.
The sale is pretty much -- it is exactly the same sale if you're selling someone with 150 or 450.
Pricing is the same.
We have 36 quota carriers in the United States right now, on it.
So, yes.
I think it's just about getting the organization in shape, so when we add people, we have the right infrastructure in place, both in sales and implementation, and in service.
Yes.
I haven't heard any differences.
I think, if you just want a very high level -- I think in Strategic and Mid-<UNK>et, we get attached two-thirds of the time, with most of our major products.
And in the Enterprise, it is about 50% of the time.
I think the reason is, that a lot of times down low -- down lower, they're not using anything, so we have a better chance of selling them the whole unified suite, where, up top, they could be using something else.
I think that's difference between two-thirds and one-half attach rates between the different organizations.
Remember, we're replacing -- like if you're replacing time and attendance, the time and attendance vendor generally doesn't have performance or recruiting --
But the nature of it is you're replacing two.
At that, and maybe if you're replacing performance, and succession, and recruiting, maybe it's one vendor.
But once you get into time, it has to be another vendor.
Now with the Kanjoya product, that would have to be -- well, not sure how many people have that.
But, yes, I don't really think of it that way, just think of the attach rates.
Okay.
Well, I don't think -- we went to -- we got to $36, fairly quickly.
I'm actually -- it gave us the opportunity with the $36 to hit our numbers by increasing their quotas.
As I mentioned last quarter, rather than going from a freshman quota to a sophomore quota, we took them from a freshman quota to a senior quota.
So, we were able to get the quota that we had confidence in, that they could achieve.
So it kind of like moved the hiring -- I thought we would be hiring more people in Strategic this year, but I don't need to, don't have to.
And I think it's better for the organization to build a better foundation there, and then start hiring for people who come in the beginning of 2018.
Again, not for the 2018 year, more for the 2019 year.
Because, I think the team we have in place now has the ability to achieve what we need to achieve, well, certainly this year, and then next year.
Yes.
<UNK> it is a tough comp in Q1, if you go back to last year.
Again, we did sell some ACA back to the base that kicked in, in Q4 of 2015, and rolled into Q1, so that's a little bit faster than normal when we sell something new.
So that created the tough compare.
It's sometime the second half of this year, is the plan.
Now, we don't know if that's going to actually happen, because it could move.
But right now, it's something the second half of this year.
We did not put in the numbers for this year, in case it does not go live, and it moves to January 1, 2018.
So it is not in our numbers.
Once it goes live, in -- if it does go January 2018 instead of Q3 or Q4 of this year, it will not be material to the quarters.
It just will not.
It will not be our largest account.
In revenue.
It will not be our largest revenue account.
Okay, thank you.
Thanks for your time.
Appreciate it.
Looking forward to a great 2017.
And congratulations to all you Pats fans.
Good night.
