Sure.
Well, we've highlighted that LiquidityOne is a multidimensional project.
It involves people, process and underlying IT systems.
The process work is internal to the company, unlikely that you would see that.
We will be introducing a product, a marketplace platform implementation in the summer.
And you'd certainly be able to see that.
In terms of how we operationalize LiquidityOne, I think we'll be able to introduce new lines of business and new self-service capabilities that will just be another pathway for clients to work with us.
We'll leverage our buyer network, our marketing and merchandizing skills and the valuation services that we provide.
So that's something that we're planning to manage.
And I think we'll have more flexible, adaptable system and the ability to use our marketplaces even of service to drive sales channels for significant industry verticals over time.
And that will be something that I think will be visible over time as we take that to market.
Well, this is <UNK>.
You can imagine tax rate is dependent on a lot of variables.
What we would expect going forward is a tax rate similar to our first quarter tax rate of just under 30%.
So looking forward that's what I would assume for the time being.
As we see mix-changes or adjustments between foreign and domestic taxes, we would adjust accordingly.
But the 29%, 30% is what you should look forward to this year through the end of this fiscal year.
So, I think we observe macro trend in growth of online, retail and omni-channel retail.
The increased complexity there requires help in the reverse supply chain.
And what clients are wanting is a scale level so that we can help them track and manage products across all of their locations, provide the pre- and post-sell logistics, gathering assets physically, being able assess value, refurbish assets and also be able to take those to the right sales channel for maximum value.
I think that's where we provide the full one-stop shop solution for large manufacturers who are typically controlling their intellectual property, their designs and are looking to limit their investment in after-sales support.
So we feel that that's a growth opportunity.
We have a number of really strong case studies and reference clients to grow in that direction.
We're excited about extending our platform throughout that supply chain.
And the opportunity is to reduce complexity in how the vendors in the retail supply chain have to deal with product that is either returned or unsold or has to be removed from sales channels of their partners and also to protect their brand in that secondary marketplace.
So that's a key trend for us.
I think also the ability to reduce transportation costs, reduce waste is another key driver for why people choose Liquidity Services.
I think just the level of reliability -- we're a company that has the ability to deploy multiple pricing models, fully dedicated service teams, to work with clients just about any environment.
And we continue to grow our buyer base.
I mean, we have lots of competitive sales channels to drive recovery for our clients.
And that can range in anywhere from export markets, B2B markets and even B2C channels.
So, we're well positioned to help that retail supply chain, reduce the inefficiency and uncover new avenues of revenue and return.
