Sure.
Yes, <UNK>, this is <UNK>.
So we don't really sell a lot to the supercomputer market, so we are not impacted by that situation.
Yes, I'll take the revenue one and let <UNK> take the OpEx one.
I'd say that on the revenue front, I would say that you could kind of look at last quarter as a 13.5 real quarter -- 13.5 week real quarter, in that we probably lost half of the production of one week.
Because all of our production is not in China, some of it is in Thailand.
So I would say that, given that we were hand-to-mouth throughout the quarter, we didn't have the ability to build up inventory and ship it during that timeframe.
So we lost probably half a week.
So you can say it's a 3% increase on a normal quarter if you want to try to normalize what we are looking forward to in the June quarter.
Yes, I'd say that we are really not impacted from a supply standpoint from Golden Week, as we don't have any production in Japan.
From a demand standpoint, the Japanese customers probably slow down a little bit, but we've got plenty of demand to make up for that.
So I'd say that we're really not impacted by Golden Week this quarter.
Hey, <UNK>.
On your question on --
Did that answer your question, <UNK>.
Okay.
Okay.
And then to follow up on your question on OpEx, so the OpEx for the extra week was almost $2 million for the quarter.
Going into Q4, that will drop off.
And then we have some other puts and takes.
Great.
Thank you, operator.
You know, the Lumentum team is excited to support our customers, grow our business, and create value for our shareholders.
I want to thank our employees for all their hard work that has put us in this excellent position in the market.
We see strong market demand from our customers.
Our new products, including TrueFlex ROADMs and 100G Datacom transceivers are winning in the market, and position us well as we look forward.
I believe we are in the early stages of a worldwide bandwidth expansion, making the future bright at Lumentum.
We will be discussing our business at several Investor Relations events in the coming weeks.
These events are listed on our website in the Investor Relations section.
This concludes our call for today.
We would like to thank everyone for attending, and we look forward to talking to you again in another three months.
