Well, as we mentioned in the remarks, we are pursuing that kind of business as well.
We partnered with Cerner recently.
We also have partnerships with insurance companies like Manulife and others and we also do deals with individual corporations as well.
So it is an opportunity we are pursuing.
Yes.
In terms of the recent developments with the Apple Watch and GPS, as you pointed out, it is still early days.
But at this point we don't see any detectable impact.
I think we've said in the past that our products tend to appeal to a slightly different audience than the Apple Watch, although there is some overlap but generally that's true.
So that's the way we see things right now and of course, we will see how things develop.
In terms of new Fitbit launches, in terms of our market share, we feel like it's generally stable.
They've released new products of course and they have very strong share but our is -- also remained about where it was.
We think it's in the 10% range.
Yes, so I think we did see the softness earlier in the year and last quarter we updated our guidance to be slightly more down than what we had previously projected.
The weaknesses are primarily driven in Europe, where the market has gotten softer.
We think for the fourth quarter that there will be some opportunity to flatten that curve a little bit with promotional activity but it is somewhat of a wait-and-see situation.
So in terms of organic growth, there's multiple categories within fitness from the low-end trackers on up to high-end running watches.
But we've seen growth in those categories on a global basis, market growth, if you will, over the past year.
I think some markets are more mature than others, as I mentioned earlier, so the situation is probably different in Americas versus Europe versus APAC but generally, the market has been growing.
In terms of benefits, I think, again, depends on category.
But new product releases always generate excitement, for sure.
But at the same time, shelf space is vitally important so we are working hard to have both good shelf space presence in retailers as well as strong product offerings.
Well, I think that's somewhat of a challenge because if you look at our Fitness product line, we have one kind of product and the features and the style that is there versus Outdoor in our fenix line which has yet a different kind of style.
But generally, I would say that the kind of customer that overlaps with Garmin would be those that are probably more on the entry-level side to running and activity, and are looking at what kind of device they could use to enhance their performance in running and other kinds of sporting activity.
That's generally the customer profile that would be overlapping with us.
In terms of our long-term view, as highlighted by the announcement we made, where we are investing in the Aviation business; absolutely, we have a strong view for the future of that business.
And currently, we are running at near capacity in our current production facilities and so in order to meet the anticipated demands of the future, we felt like it was the right time to invest in our facilities.
In terms of opportunities to win business, I think there's many opportunities to win business.
Our G3000 and 5000 lines are very strong and we believe that those products should appeal to a broad range of business jet platforms that we are currently not present in.
Regarding the linearity of ADS-B, of course, we're seeing accelerating growth in that area as people become more aware of and interested in complying with the mandate and we would expect to see stronger growth in ADS-B as we move into 2017 and 2018.
So from auto OEM business, yes, excluding deferred, basically, we did see some improvement there on a cash basis year over year.
Yes.
We are improving.
Dollars.
Yes, so we will actually give guidance on 2017 in February.
So it's a little too early for that at this point in time (technical difficulty) process over the next few months.
