Okay, <UNK>, thanks.
Operator, next question, please.
Okay, we're not going to get specific about BAMTech.
We said it's going to be dilutive but very -- in a very modest way.
And it's obviously not been a public company.
But we're not going to -- we're just not going to get specific about that.
I can tell you a fair amount about Shanghai, although not going to give you too many numbers.
We expected an opening that a large part of the visitation would come from Shanghai.
And actually we have been surprised that the visitation from the rest of China has been as strong as it has been.
Because our concentration from a marketing perspective was largely in the local region, but it's come from all over China.
One factor could be that Shanghai is a tourist destination for the rest of China, particularly in the summer, and that people from Shanghai are waiting for the tourist season to end before they visit.
Now, a visitation from Shanghai has also been strong.
We did some research and there was 98% awareness of the park among the people in Shanghai and well over 70% intent to visit from the people in Shanghai.
So that's really -- those are incredible statistics.
I mentioned earlier on the call that people who are coming are staying almost two hours longer than we expected.
That's a very good thing because it suggests that they are really enjoying the product.
And that, in fact, is the case because we've done a fair amount of research on guest reaction, guest satisfaction, and it's very high.
We won't get very specific with you about per caps except the per caps have been quite strong, particularly in the food and beverage side.
And we're also doing very well with our hotels -- 95%, 96% occupancy.
And Lion King, which is a separate ticket, is also doing extremely well and very well-booked.
So we had essentially a flawless opening that the people not just of Shanghai, but the people of China have embraced.
Clearly, the marketing has worked, and the product is performing really well.
And with that in mind, we are already expanding.
We broke ground a while ago on expansion of the park.
We have not announced exactly what it is that we are building, but we are already building to expand.
And we have plenty of property, I should remind everyone.
So we have an opportunity to build out new lands, new gate, new hotels, new restaurants, et cetera.
All very positive.
All right.
Thanks for the question.
Operator, we have time for one more question, please.
That new Sling product is pretty skinny.
I was going to say it is so skinny you can't you can see it.
But I mentioned earlier on the call that a few new products have entered the marketplace without us, namely without ESPN.
Sony was one and had real troubles getting off the ground.
And in Sony's case, when ESPN was added, they had a significant uptick in their subs.
So I don't want to suggest that Sling has to have ESPN.
They will determine that.
But as we look at the product that they are offering, we really don't believe that it is going to have -- it has a great future because it's lacking some of the most attractive channels that are out there.
You can slice and dice some of these channels, but -- to create packages, but if you don't have some of the best ones, it's pretty hard to see significant adoption of the services being offered.
Okay.
On parks CapEx, you are right in that the number was down for the quarter, but I wouldn't read too much into that.
A lot of that is timing related.
As we have mentioned before and <UNK> mentioned, the offerings that will be -- that are underway and soon to come to the theme park near you such as the Star Wars lands in both Anaheim and Orlando, those are underway.
So this CapEx is more of a timing issue, and we will update next quarter for the prospective year on what to look forward to for fiscal 2017.
This is <UNK>.
I just want to thank everybody for the call, and hope you all have a good rest of your summer.
We feel really good about this quarter.
Clearly, the bottom-line 12% increase in EPS was quite strong.
The studio's performance, as <UNK> mentioned, through three quarters is record performance for us already, maybe record performance for any studio in the industry.
And the slate going forward is extremely strong.
What we did in Shanghai was certainly something that we feel great about and very excited about, and the future there is very bright.
And the two announcements that we made today are really important.
BAMTech provides us with a great opportunity in a space that is very exciting both to us and to consumers.
And the OTT relationship that we have now created with AT&T Direct is also very important.
We think they're going to launch an incredibly robust platform with a great user interface, and it's great to be part of that launch.
Thank you all very much.
Okay, <UNK>.
Thanks.
I guess I now get to read the Safe Harbor.
Thanks again, everyone, for joining us today.
Note that a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures that were discussed on this call to equivalent GAAP measures can be found on our investor relations website.
Let me also remind you that certain statements on this call may constitute forward-looking statements under the securities laws.
We make these statements on the basis of our views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance at the time we make them, and we do not undertake any obligation to update these statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from the results expressed or implied in light of a variety of factors including factors contained in our annual report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Everyone, things for joining us, and have a good rest of the day.
