So inventory as we look to the end of the fourth quarter will be up low-single digits so in line with where we believe our sales trends will be.
So we're not expecting comps to decelerate significantly moving forward.
Our guidance range is low to mid-single digit.
We're at 6.2% quarter to date and we feel good about that number.
We talked about what January and February looks like for us, so we have a high degree of confidence we can deliver the guidance range of low to mid-single digits as we move forward and that the strength and improvement we've seen has been a combination of a better supply chain system that's been able to deliver the product and get the product available for sale both in our stores and online certainly more effectively than we did in Q3 and a significantly better product assortment, and we talked a lot about that on the call.
That's a fair assumption.
So, Bernie, I don't have the specifics in terms of the overlap, but we have a high overlap as you know of stores that we operate in versus our primary competitor.
And the 65% of the sales in these stores are with Finish Line loyalty members customers, and we know who they are, we talk to them regularly, and through the communication and incentives, special incentives, we're going to drive their behavior to continue to remain a Finish Line loyalty customer and shop with us both online as well as a sister nearby store in the marketplace, that's component number one.
The second component is these stores also have key allocated product and we're going to take the product out of those stores and put those into other stores, the remaining stores in our chain, and as you know, that product sells through at very fast rates no matter where it is.
And again, we have a high degree of confidence that will sell through in the remaining stores that it gets redistributed to and again, it will create a better customer experience, a better shopping experience for customers that are shopping those stores.
Thank you.
Thank you, operator.
This concludes today's call.
We will look forward to speaking with you again on our Q4 call in March.
Thanks, everyone.
