Sure.
And Matt, big picture, as <UNK> noted, capital allocation questions are ones we address on a regular basis, as we consider organic uses of our cash for our business internally, as well as other possibilities, including debt pay down, share repurchases and the like.
So share repurchases over the long term will likely continue to be a tool, or an arrow in our quiver.
We don't comment or speculate precisely on when or how much we would do.
As for the tools, the specific path to share repurchases, whether they are tenders, Dutch tenders, open market purchases and the like, again, that's circumstantial.
We evaluate, given our own assessment of the pros and cons at the times of those decisions.
Sure.
So on the increased miles driven, more of those miles are freeway, rural and freeway driving activity, which is a higher rate of speed, which leads to more severe accidents.
It's down slightly, but it's ever so slightly.
I believe it went from 21% to 20.3%.
Well, when you look at the non-insurance, you have to bucket them, because a charity car is completely different than a dealer car.
And so we've seen growth in our ASPs for our dealer cars.
As I mentioned previously, those are our, the most profitable cars that we process.
And actually, we've actually seen growth in our ASPs for our charity cars.
And I can attribute that to a couple factors, one of which is because of the scarcity of our land, we've intentionally targeted certain customers, we visit them to ensure that we're getting the type of cars that are appropriate for us.
So we've been very selective in those that we allow to use our land, especially in the more precious areas, like Southern California and the New England area.
And because we've been more restrictive on accepting the low end cars, we've raised the ASP on an overall basis for the charity cars.
All right.
Thank you, everyone.
We appreciate you making the time to listen to our call.
We look forward to reporting on the fourth quarter in the new fiscal year.
And that concludes our meeting.
Thanks.
Thank you.
