Thanks, <UNK>, and good morning, everyone.
I think as you know from our news release, we have good news to share with you this morning.
So I'll start with Slide 3.
We reported net financial earnings, or NFE, for the quarter of $1.56 per share and that compared with $0.47 per share during the first quarter last year.
As you can also see, tax reform is very positive for both our business and for our customers.
Energy services is having an excellent year and made a significant NFE contribution this quarter of $20.3 million.
Our team in NJR has worked very hard with customers day and night to meet the increased demand for natural gas that was caused by extremely cold weather.
As you know, we have a diverse portfolio of assets and many of the states were energy services operates recorded the lowest temperatures that they have seen in the past two decades.
I want to turn to tax reforms, which is you saw from the release has produced a meaningful incremental boost to NFE in the first quarter.
We also expect that it will positively impact our results throughout fiscal 2018 and beyond.
Our plan is to reinvest those earnings in our business to reduce our external equity needs as we advance our infrastructure growth strategy.
Tax reform will also help New Jersey Natural Gas customers who'll benefit from lower energy bills, our regulatory team will be working through that process with the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities.
As a result of all this activity, we have raised our fiscal 2018 earnings guidance to a range of $2.55 per share to $2.65 per share and that compared with our previously announced range of $1.75 per share to $1.85 per share.
We also adjusted our annual growth rate to 6% to 8% from 5.
-- from 5% to 9%.
Our decision to adjust our annual long-term growth rate was based on several factors.
First of all, we increased the lower-end of the range based on the new lower corporate tax rate and our confidence about delivering steady results in the future.
Second, we lowered the top-end of the range to more accurately reflect the outperformance of -- from Energy Services of that was due to weather as did this quarter and will for fiscal 2018.
The midpoint of the annual growth range remains at 7% and our goal is to achieve that 7% target going forward.
In addition to the benefits in tax reforms in the performance of Energy Services this year, our business fundamentals remain strong and our goal remains to achieve consistent long-term NFE growth.
On Slide 4, we illustrate where we expect to be this year and also shows the impact of the lower tax rate going forward.
New Jersey Natural Gas and Clean Energy Ventures are adding customers at a steady rate and solar continues to be an attractive energy choice for New Jersey homeowners and businesses.
We're also making significant progress on our key natural gas infrastructure projects, the Southern Reliability Link, PennEast and Adelphia Gateway.
Moving to Slide 5, you can see our revised guidance of the anticipated sources of NFE for fiscal 2018.
Aside from incremental NFE due to tax reform, which we show in red on the pie chart, the largest increases coming from Energy Services.
We currently anticipate that energy services will contribute between 20% to 30% of our total NFE in fiscal 2018.
And you can see that, that is up by 5% to 15% in prior guidance, and we also expect our regulated businesses to contribute to between 40% and 55% in annual NF<UNK>
Moving to Slide 6.
We continue to target a strong annual dividend growth rate of between 6% and 8% with a payout ratio goal of between 60% and 65%.
This performance will provide a competitive return to our shareowners and keep our balance sheet strong.
We'll continue to reinvest earnings to the company to reduce our external equity needs in the future, while supporting future growth with our substantial capital investments, in new natural gas and Clean Energy infrastructure.
And with that, I will turn the call over to Steve <UNK>, our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks, Larry, and good morning, everyone.
During the quarter, New Jersey Natural Gas continued to experience excellent customer growth and we have made progress on our infrastructure programs.
The big story was the extreme cold weather, which led to some of the highest throughput days in New Jersey Natural Gas' history.
In fact, 4 of the 10 highest throughput days over the past 11 years were in fiscal 2018.
Our system met the challenge and these extreme weather events further emphasize the need for infrastructure investments, as we continue to strengthen and maintain our natural gas delivery system.
We will invest approximately $300 million over the next few years to accomplish this task.
These projects include the Southern Reliability Link, SAFE II and NJ RIS<UNK>
Our Energy Service business is a provider of physical natural gas assets to producers, utilities, power generators and industrial customers across North America.
Energy Services' portfolio today includes nearly 50 BCF of storage capacity and 1.5 BCF of daily pipeline capacity.
These assets are strategically located throughout the United States and Canada.
Slide 8 illustrates the temperature departure from normal during the Arctic blast that began in December.
It also shows the areas throughout the country where energy services has contracts for storage and pipeline capacity.
It is in these areas where we saw strong price volatility during the Arctic blast.
Our portfolio has effectively supported our performance and we expect to nearly double planned results from energy services for this fiscal year.
This equates to an expected $0.30 to $0.40 per share contribution in fiscal 2018.
Moving to Slide 9.
The PennEast Pipeline project was approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on January 19.
It is now moving to complete land surveys and permit applications.
PennEast is estimated to begin operation in 2019.
As you know, we are a 20% owner of PennEast, which will help bring low-cost natural gas from the Marcellus to markets in New Jersey.
It is nearly fully subscribed and 6 of the shippers are utilities.
During the recent Arctic blast, natural gas traded in New Jersey for $150 per decatherm and in less than 50 miles away in Pennsylvania, they traded for $6 per decatherm.
The need for more pipeline capacity could not be more clear.
If PennEast had been in service, our region of could have saved an estimated $300 million in recent peaks.
On Slide 10, I'd like to update you on our Adelphia Gateway project.
As you know, in October, we signed an agreement to acquire an 84-mile, 18-inch pipeline for $166 million.
This pipeline runs from Marcus Hook, Pennsylvania, which is just south of Philadelphia, North to Martins Creek, Pennsylvania.
We intend to convert the 50-mile southern section of this pipeline to natural gas and bring it under FERC jurisdiction.
Today, the Philadelphia market is constrained with limited access to affordable natural gas.
The project will have minimal impact on the environment because the pipe is already in the ground.
The conversion process for natural gas involves minimal construction and utilizes existing rights of way.
This provides for a clear path to project completion.
On December 15, we completed a successful Open Season that exceeded 2x our available capacity with contract terms up to 20 years.
And most recently, on January 12, we filed with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for a certificate of public convenience in necessity and shortly thereafter, we received a notice from FERC that our filing had been accepted.
We expect the project to be in service in 2019 and contribute material to earnings in 2020.
Moving on to our Clean Energy business.
This slide shows the results of our SREC hedging strategy.
As you can see on the chart nearly all our SREC sales from facilities currently in operation and under construction are hedged for energy years 2018, 2019.
Last time we spoke, we had roughly 30% of our SREC's hedged for energy in 2020, since that time, we've made some additional sales and are now 50% hedged for energy year 2020.
With the BGS auction currently underway, we will continue to hedge our forward exposure.
Now I'll turn the call over to Pat for some details on the numbers.
Thanks, Steve.
I'd like to begin with Slide 12, discussing the effect of tax reform.
You've seen this slide in the past, however with the final legislation, we were able to quantify the impacts.
The lower corporate tax rate will provide between $0.05 and $0.10 of ongoing NFEPS benefit to our nonregulated businesses, including the BGSS incentives.
For New Jersey Natural Gas, a lower corporate tax rate will result in lower bills for our customers.
We currently estimate about $228 million to be returned to customers associated with a reevaluation of deferred tax liabilities.
In addition, the lower corporate tax rate also results in reduction in customer bills going forward.
We are working with NGBPU to determine the timing and methodology of the decreases in customer bills.
Reevaluation of net deferred tax liabilities for our nonregulated subsidiaries, resulted in significant benefits that we currently estimate to be between $0.60 and $0.65.
As Larry, indicated in his opening remarks, we've increased our NFEPS guidance for fiscal 2018.
Major components of the increase are the reevaluation of deferred tax liabilities, NJR Energy Services performance and the impact of a lower corporate tax rate on our fiscal 2018 results.
In addition tax reforms provide us with opportunity to create additional economic value for New Jersey Resources.
We use sale lease back financing for all of our planned commercial solar investments.
An increase of $52 million over our plan and a reduction of ITCs for fiscal 2018, equating to approximately $0.15 of NFEPS.
In fiscal year 2018, our statutory tax rate is 24.5%, a blend of the old and the new.
Fiscal year 2019 is when we get the full benefit of the lower rate.
To the extent we can, we'll move SREC sales from fiscal 2018 to fiscal 2019 to take advantage of the lower corporate tax rate.
Additionally, we'll be pulling forward some expenses into 2019.
These items in total are reflected on the chart on Slide 13.
We expect that these actions will create between $0.03 and $0.07 of NFEPS benefit in fiscal 2019.
On Slide 14, which shows the quarter-to-quarter comparisons for each segment, excluding the deferred tax reevaluation.
As you can see, each of our segments underlying business fundamentals are strong and that resulted in quarter-over-quarter improvements for each.
Moving to Slide 15.
You can see that our capital plan is anchored by strong cash flows from operations as well as our dividend reinvestment program to help finance our capital investments and dividend growth targets.
We originally forecasted about $83 million of new equity in fiscal 2018.
In the first quarter, we raised about $23 million of new equity and expect that are needs for the balance of the fiscal year will be about $15 million, which we plan on raising through our dividend reinvestment plan.
This is a decrease from our original plan due the outperformance of Energy Services and the benefits from tax reform.
I'll now turn the call back to Larry for some closing remarks.
Thanks, Pat.
So before we open up the call for questions, I wanted to summarize our outlook for fiscal 2018.
So I think you can see clearly that we are off to an excellent start and we expect fiscal 2018 to be a strong year and due to tax reform, higher NFE contributions from Energy Services and steady performance from our core businesses.
Our regulated business segment including New Jersey Natural Gas are expected to contribute to between 40% and 55% in annual NF<UNK>
Our long-term strategy remains to build a safer, cleaner and more affordable energy future for our customers, and our infrastructure investment strategy is focused around natural gas, clean energy and energy efficiency.
The fundamentals for New Jersey Natural Gas remains strong, steady customer growth, strong regulatory relationships and infrastructure investment opportunities will continue to drive consistent NFE growth at New Jersey Natural Gas.
We have collaborative regulatory relationships, which help us with not only our regulators but also public policy leaders that are important as we work together to support New Jersey's energy goals.
We're looking forward to working with Governor Murphy and his administration to advance his energy agenda while supporting economic development growth activities in New Jersey.
In fact, we've invested nearly $600 million in solar and we currently plan to invest nearly $500 million in solar through 2021.
We've also invested more than $150 million in SAVEGREEN, our energy efficiency program, which has generated over $370 million in local economic activity, and to our conserve-to-preserve program, we've saved our customers almost $380 million since 2006 by helping them reduce their energy usage.
Our team works every day to meet the needs of our growing customer base to improve the environment and to create more affordable clean energy choices for our customers.
And to achieve our long-term NFE growth rate of 6% to 8%, we continue to maintain a disciplined capital allocation strategy that focuses on appropriate risk-adjusted return on capital to support our growth.
We'll also maintain a strong and efficient financial profile that will provide access to external capital as we need it.
Tax reform, combined with our expectation of financial performance this year, give us the ability to maintain a strong balance sheet without issuing significant amounts of new external equity and our infrastructure investments will support customer needs for safe, reliable, resilient and affordable service, to projects that we're pursuing will support our long-term growth strategy and will help us meet our customers energy needs for decades to come.
So now before we go to questions, as always, I want to say thank you to more than our one -- our more than 1,000 employees for the work that they are doing.
Results that we are presenting to you today are -- really show the work that our dedicated women and men do every day.
They are truly the foundation of our company and the driving force behind our performance.
I'm also pleased to tell you that our team won another <UNK>
<UNK>
Power Award for the outstanding service that we are providing to our business customers.
That makes it 12 awards since 2002.
And clearly, as you can see, I'm very proud of what they do.
So with that I want to say thank you for joining us here today and we would welcome your questions and comments.
<UNK>, this a Steve <UNK>.
Yes, I mean certainly the investments that we've made, the utility have strengthen the system.
The cold weather that we experienced, end of December, beginning of January, was actually colder than what we experienced in 2014 to Arctic blast and our system performed very well.
But it does reinforce that as growing gas needs happen, we continue to need to reinforce and -- reinforce the reliability of our system.
So everything performed well and everything worked well through that extreme period.
<UNK>, Larry.
One point that you'd be interested in since 2008, we've invested over a $1 billion into our infrastructure.
You hear us talk about the accelerated infrastructure plans that we have with here in the state with the Board Public Utilities, and I think as Steve correctly points out, the performance of the system clearly has shown the benefits of those programs.
This is Larry again.
I think our regulators have done an outstanding job, giving us the tools that we need to invest properly, not only in the capital resources but the human resources as well.
And clearly, the weather that we experience recently was a test of all of that.
But when I used the word collaboration in describing our relationship with the regulators, it is truly that and the steps that we're able to take.
In the programs we're able to pursue put us in the best possible position, to be able to serve our customers on the most extreme conditions.
So the tariffs that we just instituted which raised the cost of solar panels.
Currently, we don't expect that to have a material impact on our business and in fact, for the projects that we have scheduled for this year, a lot of those panels have been already been purchased.
So as we move forward, we expect that those costs will be absorbed by everybody in the value chain and we should continue to make -- move forward and make those investments.
<UNK>, this is <UNK> <UNK>.
The only other thing I would add is that it doesn't meaningfully impact the project economics because at least for most of projects the panels are the smallest portion and let's not forget that we do get 30% of that increase in cost back by virtue of the investment tax credit.
Mike, this is Steve.
At this point, we're going to keep the initial phase at 250,000 dekatherms.
We're working through the contracts with those counter parties and hope to have them contracted relatively soon, and we don't plan on expanding that line beyond its current pipeline that's in the ground.
So we do have a second expansion that we're capable of but that will happen a year down the road.
That would just be compression that we would add.
I think the key differences between polar vortex and what we've just experienced was polar vortex was much longer in duration but it didn't have temperatures which were as extreme.
So if you recall back, last time, in 2014, I think, high prices were $100, somewhere around there.
I think the highest prices that we saw during this period was $175 was the high print.
So I think, it was really characterized as a much shorter duration but a more extreme duration.
So you had your volatility somewhat compressed during that period but we had the right assets in the right place, the team performed very well and we're able to capitalize on some of the volatility in the market.
