Well, clearly the new chair of the FCC spoke this morning in Spain, and highlighted why facilities-based competition is what he believes is the best way to facilitate the appointment of high-bandwidth technology.
It's always nice to hear a clear articulation of a facilities-based competition.
I think with respect to convergence, that is something we've been living with, had it through numerous different regulatory regimes in different administrations.
Because I think it's the way that technology and consumer preference are pushing our customers.
So I don't have a specific view on any combinations.
But just know that, as our customers have all gotten bigger, their spending has become more durable, it's longer lasting and of greater magnitude.
And that's over the last 25 years I've been doing this.
<UNK>, with respect to tax policy, who knows.
There's a number of proposals that are out there.
I guess the good thing is, what they all have in common is a lower federal tax rate.
And we're basically a full-basis taxpayer, with very small International revenue -- and don't really get any tax preferences, so we have nothing to give up.
So any lower rate will be helpful.
If you go beyond that and you talk about the expensing of capital expenditures, that's obviously helpful in a business where we're growing as rapidly as we are.
The flip side is what they do around the tax deductibility of interest.
It's a little bit hard to say.
What I would put out there is that we still find the debt markets attractive.
We have a new source of capital that we wanted to get into the facility.
We freed up revolver capacity.
And we have -- as we said, we've grown $500 million in the trailing 12 months, and we've got opportunities going forward to use capital.
So that's why we put it in place.
So we didn't have any legal expenses that were material to our numbers in the quarter, and don't expect to have any going forward.
All right.
Just before we go, <UNK> is going to round out our disclosure on our top-10 customers.
So go ahead, <UNK>.
Sure.
Customer number six was at 5% of revenue -- and this was for a customer who has requested that we not disclose their identity.
Charter Communications was number seven at 3.6% of revenue.
Crown Capital was number eight at 1.6% of revenue.
Frontier Communications was number nine at 1.6% of revenue.
And Questar Gas was number 10 at 0.5% of revenue.
And the split also.
And the split -- telco was at 68.1%, cable was at 24.4%, facility locating was at 4.9%, and electrical and other was at 2.6%.
Okay.
Well, we thank everybody for your time and attention, and we will talk you on our third-quarter call in May.
Thank you.
