Yes, <UNK>.
It's more on-premise first, really looking at how they can optimize their spend to drive more consumption of Teradata to meet their internal users' needs and drive more business values.
So the first one is that on-prem.
And the second one, I would say, is our managed cloud.
And we see continued interest in that managed cloud offerings.
So those would be the two -- we just came out with MPP on AWS in Q3.
And we do have, now, larger customers evaluating that solution as part of their hybrid cloud solution.
And so, again, you'll hear more of that in the strategy at the Analyst Day.
But that's how I would characterize the activity in Q3 and what I see the funnel in Q4.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Yes, <UNK>.
We've always had -- to answer directly first, is that we have not made any wholesale changes to the comp structure during the year.
But our objective in 2016 was to really keep it comp neutral to the salesperson to drive the right solution for the customer.
So again, out there our sales people know that they'll be treated fairly with the compensation strategy driving the right solution for the customer.
And we are working on our comp programs to really align them entirely to our strategy effective 1/1/17.
And it will continuing to be an evolving process.
But again, we have had these offerings in the past.
They were more unique to a particular sets of customers.
So we understood the economic dynamics of those transactions for our customer and for our sales teams.
And we kept it to be very comp neutral to them to drive the right solution for the customer.
So, again, you'll be -- we'll be continuing to refine those and rolling those out in a more specific way start of 2017.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Hey, <UNK>.
Yes, we did the -- the alignment was actually done in December of 2015 where we, particularly in the US, the Americas markets, where we realigned from an industry focus to a more geographical focus.
That was a very significant realignment.
And that was completed and put into place at the beginning of this year.
We're not anticipating any other significant realignments going forward.
We're working within that geographical structure.
But what you'll see is, we continue to evolve in our go-to-market.
We will align existing resources, and we're looking at hiring additional resources in the cloud area.
And again, we're aligning our resources -- continuing to align and refine our resources back to that geographical model that we put in place at the start of 2016.
So no significant realignments in 2016.
And I'm not factoring in any, again, because there's no significant realignments, there's no unusual activity that I'm forecasting or outlooking in Q4 of 2016.
Again, on our Analyst Day, you'll hear more information on our go-to-market strategy.
Yes.
Again, we're very early stages.
It is our larger customers that are evaluating those alternatives.
But there's no -- I can't come up and say there's a particular trend.
It is predominantly with our larger US-based customers.
But again, we're not restricting these types of solutions just to the US customers.
It's on a global basis.
So again, very early stages.
You'll hear more on our assumptions behind those conversions at the Analyst Day and how that would impact our long-term financial model.
So thank you.
Although the last few years -- I just want to share a couple of words here in closing.
Although the last few years have been challenging for Teradata from a revenue growth perspective, our technology, again, remains unchallenged in the market and highly regarded by our customers.
The key element of our future success is to drive more consumption of Teradata, no matter where or how deployed, in the public cloud, in our managed cloud, or as a subscription, or on premise.
We're also emphasizing our ability to generate quantifiable business value for business users at our customers.
This is something that has become less of a focus in the last few years.
Going forward, we plan to become more business outcome led and technology enabled.
We have great foundation in our technology, our customers, and most importantly our people to support our strategy.
And everyone is passionate on our renewed focus of winning.
At the center of this focus is alignment and execution.
Our long-term strategy, which you'll hear on our Analyst Day, aligns with our clear vision.
Our current year operational imperatives are aligned with our long-term strategy, all of which will be measured by actionable metrics to drive consistent execution and accountability across the organization, and drive business value for our customers.
Again, we'll provide more information on all of these actions at our Analyst Day on November 17.
And I look forward to seeing you there.
Thank you.
