My comments were focused on the first generation of products.
I think it is just a calibration, as we look at all the factors involved.
The competitive products are out there.
They were out there in the first quarter.
That affected the first generation of products, so I think it's just basic, we want to make sure that we calibrated it correctly, as best we could, using our judgment.
That was a cumulative -- just to give you a ballpark understanding, but it was cumulative over the first five years.
Obviously, we are going to sell it beyond the five years.
It has a consumables stream.
We think virtually every practice is a candidate to buy this analyzer, because virtually every practice does a manual urine sediment review, as part of a work up.
But it is a cumulative number.
I think we are always fine tuning our pricing strategy.
One of the things we have is a program called SNAP up to savings, has worked for us historically.
We are always fine tuning that.
But I think the trends that we saw in Q1 where we had very good volume, very good volume gains, at really not any in the 4Dx, not a lot of pricing gains, but good volume would be the expectation we have, generally speaking for the balance of the year.
We really haven't given a guidance for 2016, but I will mention is we do have superior products, and this is the first quarter within our new sales model, and so we're really ramping up our relationships.
And in the case of infectious disease, which of course the majority of rapid assays are infectious disease, our professional service veterinarians are important.
And our marketing strategies to this broad base of customers, both not just field but of course, phone based, and other marketing strategies.
We think we have correctly calibrated the reset here for the introduction of new competition.
Obviously, what is really driving growth in IDEXX is the continued innovation across the diagnostic portfolio.
And we think -- again, these products in many case were launched over 20 years ago, but we think it is really the innovations that are going to be driving our growth going forward.
We are finding our strategies to keep the entire customer relationship in all the product lines, and certainly when we are calling on customers -- when we call on customers, we do a very good job of talking about the level of differentiation.
It's just that we just can't always get to all customers with our direct field organization, early on, with the new competitive interests.
I want to thank everybody for being on the call, and I really also will take this time to congratulate the IDEXX organization.
This was a major transformation that we undertook in 2015 with our US direct strategy, our international operations just had an extraordinary performance.
I think it sets us up well for the year globally.
Certainly our product and innovation teams.
As I mentioned, our innovation is in high gear, with a variety of product launches that start from next week and extend over the course of the year, are balanced towards the first part of this upcoming 12 months, and then the urinalysis analyzer, the whole new analyzer.
So we've got the field organization to sell the products, and our innovation is on track.
With those closing comments, I will conclude the call, and thank you, everybody.
