From a medium term perspective, we're probably still looking at flat, maybe down slightly.
And what you saw this quarter, in terms of a slight reduction in the tax rate, which also is flowing through our full year is some additional tax benefits we're getting from the MicroFrance acquisition, coupled with some higher R&D tax credits.
Those combinations of items have resulted in a lower tax rate for the quarter and the year, and as we look out over the medium term, we're obviously looking to do some additional things around the tax rate, but I would not expect a meaningful improvement in the tax rate in the short term.
Thanks.
Thank you, and I would like thank everyone for attending the call, and your questions that you presented.
I would also like to take a few minutes just to reinforce a couple of key messages.
First of all, again, as we stated, we're raising the low end of our revenue and earnings guidance for the full year 2015.
Second, we closed the TEI and Salto acquisitions and our integration efforts are on track to our plans.
Third point is, our internal product development is progressing well.
We're going talk more about that next week, and we also published a strong DFU results from our founder's study, which is on track for a DFU launch in mid-2016, as well as, we're quite excited about our controlled market release for our two-piece ankle, which is going to happen towards the end of this year.
Despite an increase in our commercial and R&D investments in the second half of 2015, we are on track to meet our 2015 profitability targets, and that really positions us well for success in 2016 and beyond.
Lastly, we're looking forward to seeing many of you next week, again, Thursday, the 12th of November in New York for investor day.
We think it's going to be a really good session that digs into deeper clinical R&D and some of the market questions that many of you have been asking about.
Again, thank you for listening, and we look forward to speaking with and seeing all of you in the near future.
Thanks.
Thank you.
