Sure.
I will jump in, this is <UNK>.
The Penske deal is super important for us.
Penske along with our Rex acquisition cemented our entry into editorial, and gives us a pretty good head start.
We continue to build that business out.
And Rex is doing well, and we are talking to a lot of our enterprise customers that need this content.
The other great thing about Penske is that it is exclusive to us.
It used to be with one of the other companies in the space, which you know about.
And they trust us today to grow with them to sell their content, and to build an editorial offering that is differentiated and customer centric, which is not what it was before.
And we look forward to building out editorial, and we look forward to it being a good part of our business.
For the Red Bull deal, same thing.
Content is coming towards us in different ways and better ways, and we are finding that we use the most amazing content out there.
And their owners are realizing that Shutterstock is the place where we know the future of the customer, and we will be able to sell it the best.
Again, Red Bull is an exclusive deal with us, and so these are important deals for us.
Thanks.
We have time for one last question operator.
We have time for two questions, sorry.
I will jump in on the video part, and then hand it over to <UNK>.
The video world is still evolving.
We were the first in this space to build a crowd source marketplace for video.
We've learned a lot, we continue to learn, it grows well.
And we continue to see more and more still image buyers move over to video as the tools become easier to use.
Not only do they move over and start using some video, but they continue to integrate it in with the other images that they're using too, so we see crossover back and forth between the two products.
Audio is important to video, and that's why we made that PremiumBeat acquisition and that's why we continue to focus on audio also, because video needs audio.
And it's a great product for us.
On the LTV, we see this is really fairly steady.
The higher price points on enterprise, the higher price points on video, the higher price points on our offset collection, are all significant.
And they are offset, if you would, by some higher marketing spending.
However, as I mentioned before, gross margin dollars, contribution margin dollars, are higher.
And we're still seeing four to five times the lifetime value of a customer versus the cost of acquiring that customer.
And so we feel a positive trend, and certainly one that we need to be mindful of and treat with the same fragility as anybody would treat any customer as we go forward and make sure that we are continuing to press hard on maintaining that ratio, if not improving it.
Now we have time for one last question please.
We do not detail that usage.
Once again, it is also an evolving landscape where you have customers who are either shifting among subscriptions.
We are seeing a nice uptake of the 350 product from on-demand customers.
And once again, we continued to, as <UNK> said, as we have done for the past 13 years, we continue to make sure we have an appropriate offering for customers based on their usage and need patterns over time.
Thank you very much, everybody, for joining us today.
We appreciate your time, and if you have any follow-up questions, please let us know, we are here to answer anything you might need.
Thank you.
