Well, we had 12, I believe, opened last year, so we'll end this year with a grand total of 172.
So that may explain the difference in your model.
Macy's and Men's Warehouse are consolidated under Men's Warehouse; Jos.
A.
Bank rental is under Jos.
Bank.
The freestanding tux stores average at about 1,100 square feet and the Macy's shops are around 500 feet.
We're constantly working a pipeline of potential new accounts.
These are accounts that are hard to win.
These RFP processes can drag on for quite a while, but that's an ongoing effort.
We don't have anything to announce and can't really guide you on what future new businesses we may be awarded.
But there's always a healthy pipeline that we're working on.
We looked at it on a heat map.
It's fairly consistent; there were a cluster of states in the middle of the country that seemed to be hit a little harder than the rest of the country, but other than that it was fairly evenly distributed throughout the Business and the country.
It was essentially traffic-driven, so we didn't see it within one product category over another.
I'm not sure that we could draw that consistent kind of conclusion.
For example, Oklahoma got hit a little harder.
Texas wasn't hit as hard.
So it's not clearly defined as oil-related, but it seemed -- what's probably a more important trend is that it seemed fairly consistent across the country.
<UNK>, we didn't give the amount of the liquidation sales; it wasn't actually a very big number.
So we didn't provide that.
I'm sorry I can't do that.
But as to the fourth quarter, there won't be liquidation sales.
In the fourth quarter what we're closing are full-line stores.
So we'll run those stores as usual right up to the closing date, and then we'll carry that inventory forward into the remaining chain and sell through it without concern about any kind of clearance of that product.
It's all basic, healthy product.
And purchases have been adjusted around it.
Yes, I think one of the things the we learned early on in this business is that those big, multiple-unit transactions were almost exclusive just to that one product category.
So if we were running a BOGO three-suit offer, we would sell four suits but nothing else.
What we're seeing now is a much more healthy balance of essentially the closet within each transaction.
We're selling suits one and two at a time, much more so than three and four at a time.
But we're getting a lot more attachment to it.
I think that speaks to the improvements we've made to the assortment, the improvements that we've made to the customer experience.
And we're quite pleased to see that UPT grow, in spite of the fact that we're facing the headwind of these aggressive multi-unit offers.
Thank you.
Well, we appreciate your interest in following our story, and we look forward to updating you at the end of the third quarter.
