Good morning, <UNK>.
Hello, <UNK>.
<UNK>, I -- we're in the regulatory approval process right now and the process of filing for antitrust approval and also shareholder approval.
I think on this point, we've got to stick to the script that we had at the time we did the announcement.
The two companies are still operating independently of each other at this point.
And so, I think I'd refer you back to the slide deck that we have from the announcement in mid-September.
I don't think we can go any further of that, than that, on this call this morning.
I'm going to start this.
And, <UNK>, if you have something to add.
No, I mean, I think that the -- we had a price increase October 1.
Which, we do annually at -- on October 1.
And, we saw, kind of, the same activity from the channel that we normally do.
So, no, I don't think I saw any material difference.
No, <UNK>, I guess I'd add I think our price increase was pretty similar to the rate it's been in prior years.
Generally, in that 1 point to 1.5 point- range.
I think the behavior of our distributors was very similar to what it's been.
There's some businesses that might have been a little longer or shorter in the context of the pre-buy.
But, those tend to average out.
And, so, I'd say, overall, pretty similar impact to what we've seen in the past.
I don't think we quantified that in the prepared remarks.
I'm going to start this, and then, <UNK>, if you want to quantify, you can.
The plant got back up and running and also we got availability of the inventory that was in the facility in late September.
So, we lost a good five weeks, maybe even six weeks.
But, it occurred -- the explosion was, kind of, in early August.
And, by the time we exited the quarter, we had full access to the facility again.
I just want to make clear that, in a country like China where we import product into, and we hold it in a logistics point, we don't have the flexibility to do a rush of new products into the country.
Because, they got to clear the port.
So, the fact that we lost access, not only to the manufacturing, but, to the inventory to ship, is what caused this disruption.
Yes, I think that the -- roughly, the difference in trajectory on that business alone had about a 60 basis point impact, approximately, on the total internal growth number.
And, about 300 basis points on the rest of world.
So, again, it's hard to tell.
But, if we look at difference in trends, that was the -- that's the impact.
Thank you.
That's exactly right.
Yes.
You got it.
I would add that those liabilities will likely be refinanced.
Yes, correct.
I mean, our intentions are to refinance these in the near term.
But, they did move in the quarter from long-term to current.
Morning.
Morning, <UNK>.
Yes, on the inventory.
Obviously, we don't provide guidance on a quarterly basis.
But, I guess, I would say over a period of time we've brought it down gradually.
I would have the expectation that it continues to come down gradually.
We may have an individual quarter where it may stay stable or come up a little bit based on either transitional items, transitional initiatives we have, in the near term, relative to the margin improvement initiative.
Or, quite frankly, new products, as you mentioned.
But, I guess I'd take a longer term, or moderate, intermediate term view on it, <UNK>.
Say that, I would expect to -- we've got considerable room to continue to bring this thing down.
Relative to CapEx.
I'm -- at this point in time, in our CapEx expenditures, are relatively modest based on historical trends so far.
I think that is an area, again, relative to our asset turns that we're focusing on.
And, I guess, I would say for the year, I would anticipate it being in the $65 million to $80 million range for the year.
You bet.
Well, thank you very much for your interest in DENTSPLY.
That concludes our conference call.
I'll be around today for follow up.
Thank you.
