I would say it's got to be close to 100 planned for 2016.
The impact, we don't know quite yet.
We have not done a full in-depth study of the Star Bars, we are going to be able to do that pretty soon because we would have had enough history behind the Star Bars.
It is tough to isolate just the Star Bar change because many times we're Star Barring at the same time we're bumping out a restaurant.
We may also be reskinning, retinting buildings, reconstructing parking lots, a whole bunch of stuff at the same time we're doing Star Bars.
So it is a little bit tough to isolate the Star Bar.
Anecdotally, I would tell you, it certainly seems like there's a lot more guests eating at the bar than what I have seen historically.
That could be another reason for some challenging alcohol compares since, because they're eating more versus drinking more a the bar, but again, that's just anecdotal.
We haven't done a full index study on it.
We do believe that the Star Bar itself is a big part of keeping our concept and brand relevant in 2015 and fresh for 2015.
So the bar is center of the energy universe within a Texas Roadhouse, so we knew we needed to take it up quite a bit from the original design over 20 years ago.
If you've had the same haircut for 20 years, you might want to mix it up a little bit.
You need more servers if you have additional seats, and then the kitchen maybe is not affected as much as the front of the house.
It helps, but the number of bump outs we have been doing the impact is very, very small to the system as a whole.
So I would not say it has much of a discernible impact on our labor productivity.
Our guys get paid 10% of the bottom line still, so they have an incentive to do the best job they can in managing their cost structure and while balancing that with staying on offense from a guest experience perspective.
They are also very competitive with each other, and they share a lot of best practices with each other on how they staff and schedule their restaurants.
We probably have anywhere from four to six or maybe three to six managers in our restaurants that would be impacted in some way by the new regs.
It really depends on sales volume which impacts the number of managers we might have.
Our Managing Partners started out making a base salary of $45,000 a year.
So technically, they would be under the what's been at least told to us so far that the salary threshold might be $50,000; technically they would be under it unless we change something in the way they're paid.
Right, that's back to our earlier comment where we could shift some of the bonus dollars that we currently have today over to the base, so we will see.
Yes, because some of them are at $45,000, and technically would be -- we'd have to do something.
And their base is typically more than the $45,000, or I mean their bonus, I'm sorry.
We will see.
Certainly that could happen over time, it just really depends on what those pressures end up being.
And it's probably an inevitability that there's going to be some raising of the federal minimum wage, and more states are going to get more active in minimum wage and it's going to happen.
And it's not a matter of if, it's just a matter of when.
But certainly, we're getting a good learning from what we're having to do in the states that you mentioned.
And with that said, we already have experience in California and New York where they have already jumped ahead.
I'm sorry we couldn't hear your question.
No.
