Yes.
In the third quarter, I talked about 70 to 90 basis points higher in G&A, which is obviously pretty significant.
And the third-quarter G&A is very heavily influenced by a bigger expected bonus accrual than 2015 -- in 2015, excuse me.
In 2014 in the third quarter, we really ramped down the bonus accrual last year when dairy hit that all-time high and our results fell short of our plan.
This year, we are tracking above our plan, so there's a big gap to make up.
I've heard it referred to as the bonus reload.
So the bonus reload in the third quarter is a significant portion of that expected 70 to 90 basis point increase.
And there will be something similar that happens in the fourth quarter because we have -- we expect to have higher G&A for the year that's pretty significantly higher than the previous year, and a big part of it is that.
I'll answer the modeling question and then <UNK> or <UNK> can answer what the guest acceptance has been.
I would say that we would look at those restaurants in a similar way that we would look at restaurants that we have, which is there's a honeymoon period, and after the honeymoon period, there is a stabilization of sales at a certain level, and then we would expect them to stay at that level or grow from there.
That's the assumptions we would make with respect to how much royalty we would be expecting looking forward.
We have a list of other potential restaurants that they are thinking of opening in Mexico, so I think that bodes well that they are happy and we are happy and that we will move forward in that part of the world.
I think we can't hear <UNK>.
The legal accrual is one-time until we have the next legal accrual, so I will say that about that.
I would say that once we reload the bonus in 2015, all else being equal, we shouldn't have any deleveraging from reloading bonuses anymore.
So I would say that we are not expecting to have big G&A deleveraging going forward.
Our intent would be to try to keep G&A in future years as flat as possible and to grow it at less than revenue growth, and maybe be able to leverage it a little bit.
But I wouldn't count on that.
I would just sort of look at it as being flat going forward.
Absent any future legal accruals.
Turnover rates are actually very strong so far this year.
Our management turnover is less than it was last year and comparable to 2013.
And at the staff level, we are holding where we were last year.
So it hasn't increased.
I think a lot of what we're doing is working to keep the people that we need to keep, and some of that may be making sure that those pay rates are the correct pay rates in each of the markets we are in.
But as far as retention goes, it stayed pretty stable this year.
I think what we did, just to remind you, is that we enabled all of our ADOs and area kitchen operations managers and now our restaurants, we arm them with reporting that would show them what the market was paying in each one of the surrounding restaurants in each geography.
That's now rolled out everywhere.
So, I think that has enabled us to make sure that we are paying appropriately in those markets, which may be part of the reason that retention is where it is today versus where it was last year.
So that tool and that initiative actually has fully rolled out now, and I think we are seeing some benefit from it.
