I think what's going to drive year-over-year increase as we look toward the back half of the year is going to be the Chinese OEMs.
I think our share from our perspective looks pretty stable across the majority of the other market.
I think there are a couple of other headwinds that we are dealing with like the laptop and tablet market, probably not as robust as we would like.
You've got multi-mic adoption in the Chinese OEMs coupled with our share gains.
And then I think, again, pretty stable, I would say, at the other large -- two large customers that make up a significant amount of our sales.
So as far as --
<UNK>, as I mentioned in the guide, if you look sequentially, the MCE business is basically, at the midpoint, going to be flat sequentially and the growth sequentially is really coming from our specialty component business.
In there it's pretty broad-based, both our hearing health business and our precision device end markets.
Let me just take first mics, because I think it's a little bit simpler, we've talked about this.
Our expectations are that we would say a relatively significant increase in ASPs over the average.
And if you compare it, as an example, an analog microphone sold in a midrange China phone, it's pretty significant the increased possibility over that.
As we get into digital mics and high-end mics, obviously it's going to be a little bit less in terms of the premium we get.
But I think what I would say as far as just to close on the mic is that we are very comfortable that there's value here that people are willing to pay for incrementally over the microphone they were going to buy anyway.
It could be anywhere from at the low end probably somewhere in the neighborhood of a 15%, 20% increase up to maybe even a 30% to 40% increase over a traditional analog microphone.
Now, just take a step back, when we talk about products like Versant, which are new markets to us, there's really no ASP to compare to.
It's more about the content per device.
And this is the easiest one for me to -- I'm sure you guys all understand is when you think about, in a premium headset today, as I said, we would sell one microphone.
Maybe it would be like $0.30, $0.40, maybe $0.45 for one microphone.
And now we can put content in excess of $5.00 per premium headset.
And so the opportunity really is not necessarily about ASPs, but the high (technical difficulty) level of content that we can get.
Let me take this one.
I think what we did in connection with the Q4 earnings call is we gave some expectations regarding certain financial metrics revenues, gross profit, expenses.
And what I would say is we performed better than expected in Q1 and our revenues were slightly ahead of the midpoint.
Our EPS came in almost $0.05 above the midpoint.
I would say, Q2, we raised the guide $0.01 or $0.02 from what the consensus is.
I don't see any change for the back half the year at this point.
So you can from that kind of imply the full year.
I don't have the split here, but what we are still expecting is modest growth for the full year.
We're just (technical difficulty) the last call.
I'm not sure (multiple speakers) (technical difficulty) there on the 10% growth.
Again, we are reiterating --
A full year --
Just to reiterate, think of it this way.
We were $5 million above the midpoint in Q1.
We are actually a couple million below the guide in Q2, so there's a net call it $2 million or $3 million in the first half, and we are reiterating the back half of the year.
So again, modest growth from a full-year standpoint.
Yes, so just to put a little bit more color on it, we have multiple parties interested and we've received more than one letter of intent.
So, we are in negotiation and in diligent discussions with a number of parties.
And again, we remain committed, as we were at the beginning of the last call, to exit the business by the end of Q2.
No, no write-downs there.
But what I will say is -- I think the question the last call came up, what's the book value of the speaker receiver business.
And if you looked at our 2015 10-K, the book value there was just under $400 million.
It's important to note that more than $325 million of that book value relates to goodwill.
And we analyze and record goodwill at the mobile consumer segment level.
So what I'll call it is the tangible book value of that business is significantly less than that.
You'd have to take at 12-31-2015 the $390 million, back out the $330 million of goodwill, so it was roughly $60 million in tangible book value at 12-31-2015.
And that's how you get -- if you look at what's in our supplement here, the book value is right around $20 million, the difference being the losses in the quarter and some reductions in working capital.
So hopefully that ratchets up.
We really can't comment on any specific platform.
I would sit there and say the majority of what we are projecting is we feel pretty comfortable that we've got the diamonds up.
Obviously, some of the products, it depends on how their products sell in the end market, some of this.
That's why we are kind of hedging between the $10 million and $20 million.
But the range is $10 million to $20 million in the back half of the year, incremental.
And so I would sit there and say if their products do better, maybe it's closer to $20 million, and maybe if we get a few more design wins that aren't secured closer to the $20 million, but we feel pretty comfortable about the $10 million, that's why we gave the range.
I'm not going to comment about a specific customer, but I would just generally say, for those of you on the call who seen the demonstration, the reaction, generally speaking, is they don't believe it.
So we have to do it live to show how it works.
And again, what's very interesting about this, <UNK>, is that when we see the only way we could have presented a solution like this was by bringing our microphone, MEMS microphone capability, our balanced armature speaker from the hearing aid side capability, coupled with the algorithm and signal processing capability from -- that we acquired with Audience to come up with the solution.
And we're hopeful we will have other ones to talk about, other markets, other products, in the quarters to come, but we're really excited about this opportunity.
Yes, I think I would say we are kind of near getting near the tail end of it.
We aren't signing up for any more with respect to the Audience integration.
We'll always look at opportunities, whether it be footprint consolidation or other opportunities for cost take-out, but right now, I think we are kind of near the tail end of the cost take-out and the focus is really on the top line.
Again, <UNK>, as <UNK> said, whether it be from a manufacturing footprint standpoint or an SG&A standpoint, we are constantly looking at this.
But I think we've accomplished what we want to accomplish relative to the Audience integration on the cost side.
<UNK>, think of it as roughly $4 million a quarter is kind of what we are trending at.
We might've been a touch under that, I think $3.8 million, in Q1.
But given our debt is floating for the most part with the exception of a $100 million that's fixed, I would say it's safe to assume $4 million a quarter.
Thanks very much for joining us today.
As always, we appreciate your interest in Knowles and look forward to speaking with you on our next earnings call.
Thanks and goodbye.
