Okay.
The, <UNK>, your -- well, thanks for the comments on the margin.
It is a primary focus for us to continue to be extremely competitive on margins, and do what we can to remove cost.
As the wireless business wound down last year, we absorbed about $25 million of costs that is now behind us, and is absorbed within the business.
So we're going to continue to focus on cost, as well as trying to drive as much price as possible.
I think we've said in previous calls, that our margins would be in the high 30%s.
We think that that's probably the low point, and we'll do everything we can to get it up in the 40%s, in the low 40% margin range.
(Multiple speakers) This is <UNK>, but for the year, really what we're expecting, and what we said is, lower hardware for the year, which will impact margin dollars and our EBITDA.
So yes, from a trending standpoint, it does look like we're ending up, just above the higher end of the range.
But we're still pretty comfortable with our guidance range.
From the standpoint of technology, yes, look, we stay abreast to all the movements in the industry.
Obviously, it's like the wild west right now.
But we're huge believers that ultimately it comes down to having the best and biggest pipe to the home, period, and that's what we focus on.
We've got a fantastic product team, fantastic technology folks looking at this.
We believe Verizon's look at a skinny bundle is probably what the customers want for the future.
Over-the-top optionality was mentioned earlier in the call, another thing customers want.
So we stay abreast, and on top of everything, but ultimately the big pipe wins.
(Multiple speakers).
Are we okay with it.
(Laughter).
It continues to get squeezed.
There's no doubt about it.
But we're -- the ability to bundle that product with broadband is so important.
And so, we look for other ways to take costs out, as well as trying to get margin.
So that's where the focus is, and so far we've been very successful.
We plan to do the same in the future.
<UNK>, we have not seen a lot of additional competition, especially in the enterprise space.
The thing that we have is, we have excellent relationships in Cincinnati with the enterprise customer base, and actually we're seeing growth in our largest customers.
So we really haven't seen any strong competition from that merger at all.
Yes, one of the moves we've recently made, and we're putting a lot of focus on is the commercial SMB marketplace.
When we, as we talked earlier, the migration of companies from TDM to VoIP, we lose about 30 points of margin, 30 to 40.
This gives us a hole that we, in the past we've tried to manage down.
What we're trying to do is develop a product line and bundle that we can then, fill that hole with.
So we think there's a big opportunity in that marketplace, and we're putting a lot of focus in there to develop products such as you said, to grow in that space.
So we think that's a big opportunity.
The other thing is taking that -- those products in other regions, or other markets.
We're in Columbus, Louisville and Indianapolis, and they're all very applicable there as well.
Yes.
(Laughter) We do look at -- <UNK>, this is <UNK>, we do look at that currently.
So we do look at adjusted EBITDA on trending basis for that.
And we, for the most part that gets a little bit clouded because some of the investments we've made.
Obviously, what we've said in the past is, as you invest in fiber, you're also -- the acceleration of that investment digs a bit of a hole initially.
But if you look at it over time, it's declining slightly, but you see it flattening out.
And I think when you adjust for those investments, accelerating your fiber optics, it looks a lot more plausible from the standpoint of turning the corner from a profitability standpoint.
So that's a lot of what we look at is, EBITDA on an adjusted basis.
Thoughts around all of it.
We're looking at it all very closely.
Obviously, with the most recent moves with the sub notes, and I do want to highlight we have, as of today, we no longer have sub notes on the balance sheet, which is a great thing for this Company.
But yes, we are looking at that right now.
We've got a strategy going forward.
We're obviously keeping very close eye on high yield market.
But yes, we're obviously analyzing that on a weekly basis.
Hey, <UNK>, this is <UNK>.
The costs are already embedded in the ARO liability.
So this is an ongoing -- it's an ongoing operation.
We are accelerating a little bit.
We had initially planned from a cash flow standpoint, this to hit over a two year period.
But we decided, from an operational efficiency standpoint, was to just do it all at once, and get it all done.
It was much more efficient, actually saved us a little bit of money.
But the dollars we're talking are not major.
I believe they're around $10 million to $15 million.
So and again, it's already on the balance sheet.
No, I'm sorry, over the year.
So we had initially projected to do that as slowly as possible.
So that $10 million to $15 million we'd spread out a few years, but just looking at the efficiency -- we'll shoot to have that done this year.
Yes, it gets a little more complicated than that, with discontinued operations.
If you look at the financials, I would start there.
And then, if you have questions we could walk you through after the call.
We could walk you through discontinued ops.
But it gets -- it's a little trickier than that.
The $54 million increase was associated with the transfer of the lease obligations, the remaining lease obligations to the core business effectively.
Yes, we'll follow up afterwards.
But the best way to think about it is -- all right.
Thanks.
Yes.
So the best way to think, prior to the close of a business, those assets and liabilities sit in the wireless business.
And then effectively, what's remaining, what's just shifted over into the balance sheet on the core business was the remaining liability, the obligation of the remaining leases.
And the best way to think about it, it's just debt, right.
We now have a debt obligation for capital leases.
We have contracts on those.
And the way I think of it, that's just debt for the core business, and we'll pay that out over time.
<UNK>, do you have any other comments on that.
That's right.
And the $25 million that <UNK> was referring to, is sitting in discontinued operations liabilities in both periods.
We can talk offline.
Yes, discontinued ops was pretty complex.
<UNK> and his team did a good job, and we'll go through a lot of detail in the Q.
But if you have any questions, which I have a feeling we'll have quite a few, please call us.
Yes, we think it would be slightly positive.
We have eight stores.
We've converted them all to fioptics stores, where they're not only selling, but demonstrating our product, as well as servicing for customers.
So it's -- every one of them is a great experience, and we're finding out it's very good channel for sales.
