If <UNK> has got something more specific to weigh in, but I would say not significantly different than historic proportion.
I'll give you the color, <UNK>, that it was actually a somewhat stronger than historically normal quarter from a production and playout perspective.
But that's kind of at the edges.
In general, the video processing is a portion of the of the whole -- is consistent with the last several quarters' average when we were breaking out that level of detail within video.
And I guess if I could add to that, I would say, even over the last few quarters while we've had a dip in video, the production and playout portion remained fairly steady.
It was really video products that decline, and -- (multiple speakers), yes, and it's really those products that rebounded this quarter.
Video processing.
And that's consistent with our dialogue around a pause, trying to figure out HEVC, trying to figure out Ultra HD, and also trying to figure out the virtualization and how to best really master the operationalization of that.
The turn down that we saw didn't happen from the very beginning of the quarter.
So I think we do acknowledge that there is possible further down side on the Cable Edge business in the quarter.
And It's not our -- 20%.
I'm trying to go through the math quickly in my head, and I guess that seems more than what we would anticipate in a down side scenario.
I guess put differently, even in the worst case, I don't imagine down another 20%, <UNK>.
That being said, I do want to emphasize that on the video side, as I entered a moment ago and in the context of someone else's question, while we do expect video to improve, probably not another 13%.
And while it's encouraging to see the external factors, demand factors having flipped, it's actually off to the races.
So with HEVC and Ultra HD and the like, we think that there's going to be same steady ramp and demand on the video side.
And therefore, we expect the video to continuously increase, not at the same pace as we saw this past quarter.
Exit was $88.5 million.
And I think you should -- we did taper the share repurchase into this year as we got closer to $100 million in cash.
And all things equal, we would think about repurchasing in the same levels over the last couple of quarters.
So with continued repurchase, we still have -- I don't have the number right off the top of my head.
We have plenty of room left in our repurchase pool, if you will, and we expect to continue to repurchase it at I would say current levels.
That's why we also call out HEVC compression.
Historically, the two have been really linked together.
But an interesting dynamic is that we now see a number of operators, cable, telco, as well as some broadcast and media companies looking to use HEVC in the near term for traditional HD and even SD content as they look to drive better efficiencies in their mobile networks and in their streaming infrastructure, et cetera.
So we do have a view.
We've had a couple of announced customers using HEVC technology for those services, and so we do have a view now that HEVC will be more of a near-term driver even before Ultra HD really kicks in.
<UNK>, we have $56 million left on our repurchase.
Let us end the Q&A session there.
And let me simply conclude by thanking you again for joining us, and reiterating that we believe our technology vision, our strategy, our focus on execution, and the opportunity in front of us as being both real and very compelling.
We remain well positioned and firmly committed to delivering earnings growth this year, as well as well into the future.
We really do appreciate your support, and we look forward to keeping you updated on our progress.
Thank you very much, everyone.
