We don't expect material revenues in 2016.
We are planning on clinical experiences in 2016.
The issue of broad claim language versus narrower claim language is actually was part of a discussion at the FDA workshop, and I can refer you to there those minutes, and you'll see pretty much what the exchange has been.
The issue -- I would not view that as something that is architecture dependent or only offered to a certain company.
That has to do -- in other words, FDA is going to respond to these kind of products in like manner as far as I can tell.
And so that comes down to FDA asked for a certain amount of data based on the kinds of things you want to talk to your customer about.
And if you just want to talk about broad things and not specific things, then they asked for one set of data.
And the more specific you get, the more data they asked for around that set of specifics.
So, in general, it is a matching of data requirements with claims, and so they are describing to you a strategy around what they think they can do from a data requirement point of view.
I think the playing field will be level here and to the extent the customers need a certain amount of information, then it's just going to be for all of us to go create that data and deliver it.
General surgeons routinely use that motion to do two things.
To use gravity as a retractor, so it's an extra hand using gravity.
And for the anesthesiologist to manage the patient in terms of positioning with regard to other vital signs and things like that.
So in procedures where you are trying to manage bowel, for example, it's really helpful to have table motion and that is clearly something that jumps out.
However, once we've had it, we've now been CE Marked in Europe and we've had it trialed in different specialties, I think it appeal is broad.
So we thought about it upfront initially around general surgery.
I think its appeal will be broader than that.
<UNK>, you will be our last questioner.
You made it under the wire.
Sure, I think a couple things that excite me and lead me to believe there is a lot of opportunity.
A couple.
Well, one of them is that I think in the architectures we are in today are pitted in the markets for which we have clearances, there is still a lot of procedures that are being done open and have opportunity to be done minimally invasively with our products.
And I think that is -- comes down to execution and delivery of some of the things we have in the pipeline.
Having said that, I think that as you just stand back and look out over the next decade and ask, do we think that robotic-assisted surgery can impact more procedures or more types of procedures than they are being impacted today, I think the answer to that is absolutely yes.
Some things are things like SP, products that look different.
SP won't be the last set of products that look different.
We think there are opportunities for other products and technologies that can really make a difference in surgeons delivering great care.
So we are excited about it.
We're investing in it and I think ask just about any surgeon, do you think that the use of computation analytics and robotics is going to improve your practice over time or become less important.
I think the answer is pretty uniform that those kinds of technologies should help them if they're well delivered and well executed.
On the revenue per procedure, I don't think there's much more than what we said.
There's a lot of factors that impact that particular metric.
It has been running at a pretty tight range, $1,830 to $1,840.
It did take over to a growth this last quarter as we saw utilization of advanced instruments more than offset the headwinds mostly from exchange.
But again, there a lot of those factors could vary in the future in terms of procedure mix, customer efficiency, buying pattern, foreign exchange.
So it is really a lot of factors there.
On Xi, the certain feedback has been outstanding.
Too soon to tell in terms of number of sites and duration as to what the changes and trends are.
But we will be watching.
Thanks <UNK>.
That was our last question.
As we've said previously, while we focus on financial metrics such as revenues, profits and cash flow during the conference call, our organizational focus remains on increasing value by enabling surgeons to improve surgical outcomes and reduce surgical trauma.
I hope the following comments from Dr.
Solomon, a general surgeon from Orlando, Florida, gives you some sense of the impact our products have on surgery.
Quote, the Advanced Technologies and improved dexterity of the da Vinci Xi System have allowed me to perform complex minimally invasive operations with a statistically measurable improvement in outcomes.
My patients are clearly and reproducibly benefiting from less pain, a shorter length of hospital stay, less time off work and lower short and long-term complications, end quote.
We have built our Company to take surgery beyond the limits of the human hand and I assure you that we remain committed to driving the vital few things that truly make a difference.
This concludes today's call.
Thank you for your participation and we look forward to talking to you again in three months.
