That's a good question, thanks.
Those are all proceeding exactly -- I guess two parts.
Those actions that we had implemented at that time and described to you in the July call with an important addition, I will get to that in a sec, are proceeding exactly as we had expected.
Of course, the major change here is we've taken Hawesville down to a lower production level and so that changes the basis of that whole presentation, if you will, or calculation.
But all of those actions about which -- those were all implemented and those are either done or in execution phase.
So there's been no change there other than, as I said, the change on the configuration of Hawesville.
<UNK> gave you the EBIT or the EBITDA breakeven.
In terms of accounting profit and loss, adding in depreciation, is that what -- what specifically are you asking and then we'll try and answer it best we can.
We haven't put that out, John.
I think you can work back from EBITDA by -- you know the cost below the EBITDA line, just to go over them for everybody, I guess <UNK> or <UNK> will tell me if I get this wrong.
We obviously have interest expense of about $20 million on an annual basis.
Depreciation is about $70 million annualized -- thanks, <UNK> -- $70 million annualized.
Taxes are an estimate at these LME levels.
You are not paying very many taxes.
<UNK>, go ahead.
Essentially zero in the US and at around breakeven levels, it's not going to be much in Iceland either.
So assume zero for taxes.
And in <UNK>'s number, that cash covered interest.
Really depreciation is going to be the big (multiple speakers) that's not in <UNK>'s number.
No, thanks, <UNK>, that's a good question.
Now that you asked, we'll just -- maintenance CapEx, as we've said before and we've obviously confirmed this in discussions with all the plants recently as you would hope and expect, are relatively low at these plants, especially at Grundartangi, which is our newest plant.
And so the answer to your question is no.
And I can expand.
Maintenance CapEx for 2016, just strictly maintenance if we were to make a decision to stop all discretionary CapEx, you are talking about well under $50 million for the consolidated company.
Okay, well, then we do appreciate everybody's time again and we'll look forward to talking with you over the coming months.
Take care.
