Thank you very much, <UNK>.
I'll certainly miss you, but don't think I will miss you.
I think we'll be in contact in the future.
Gil's going to be here throughout the year, so definitely stay involved with all of the critical aspects of the business that he's been so critical to in the past.
So we are very fortunate to have him to help us transition.
Is that all the questions.
Thank you very much.
Yes.
We're going to certainly maintain a focus on cost and managing the business for EBITDA.
And as the year progresses, we'll be able to make adjustments in those regards.
We are going to continue to invest though, to be clear, in key areas; so around e-comm, for example, we're going to continue to invest capital to build that platform because we think it is one of the keys to getting our comps back to positive.
And we hope, as we said in our guidance, that we trend back to a positive comp.
Our franchisees have done that and we hope to follow their lead on that.
So there are cost opportunities.
There always are.
We've done a good job in 2015 of managing costs better than we've ever done.
And in 2016, we're going to maintain that discipline, but that doesn't mean we're not going to make some investments, because we do think our prospects going forward are good.
And as Steve said, the core side of our business is exciting when you layer the e-comm platform on top of our stores, on top of our distribution, on top of our great people.
And so we feel like that's a really viable model.
So, I want to be clear that we're going to keep our eyes on costs, be very cost conscious, but also looking forward and investing in the future.
Sure thing, <UNK>.
Ryan here.
So the impact in Q4, it was a little -- it was the net effect of the impact of the acquisition accounting.
It kind of mucks with things a little bit.
So the revenue impact in Q4 was just a few million, a couple million, and about breakeven on EBITDA for that stub period.
Just not material.
And again, primarily driven by the acquisition accounting.
I think the revenue is just a shade under $3 million.
As Ryan said, it's a couple million.
We look at that a lot and we see the same macro data that a lot of you folks see.
And the reality, from our perspective, is we see our numbers and it still feels like it's choppy for our customer out there.
We don't see any big change in Q4 versus the rest of the year, but it still feels like there's some headwinds for our customer.
We've not seen any tail winds from lower gas prices.
You would think over time that would help us, but we can't say that in our data we've seen that.
So I would say it's the same from what we've been seeing and we certainly hope it gets better, but it's challenging overall.
That's it for this call.
We look forward to talking to you on our next quarterly update.
Thank you.
