Go ahead.
Sure.
We are not quite sure on market share, but we feel very good.
We are obviously a very strong leading bank probably in the three quarters of the market share range.
So up in that 70%-plus, certainly in the US.
We think we are much lower outside, and I think part of where we are really encouraged and where I think we have made great progress internationally over the last year, year and a half, is starting to get the belief and the conviction of what we need to do to grow the cytology business outside.
And you remember we said, hey, one of the first things we could do to return this company to growth would stop the sharp declines on the ThinPrep business, and I think we feel pretty good about what we are doing there.
I actually feel great.
No specifics.
I think you would flow those in.
Obviously, we were pleasantly surprised to the upside on the surgical business and in the US.
I think our US business is doing a little better than what we anticipated in our international business, a little more choppy and so forth.
So outside of that, we are not going to give specific guidance to the individual components, other than to say that any softness that we may be seeing in the near term or the short term internationally, is going to be offset, we expect, by the strength in the US business.
Sure, <UNK>.
I think this is more an internal execution issue of us dealing with our dealers versus the market, per se.
Having said that, we were hopeful to get some bigger orders in some of the emerging markets this year, and we are probably just backing off that.
We're making some progress in Brazil and places like that that we are probably being a little more cautious about as we go in.
But it is much more our own execution and, frankly, again, it is a small part of our business that we know has great potential and we will realize it.
But it is more that, I think, than anything external or macro that we would really point to.
It could be macro, but we are not going to look to say it is that.
I think the opportunity is still there.
Yes, <UNK>, I think it has been the hidden piece and back to a focus on execution where we have clearly been a little more focused in the US.
But our team has been continuing to place Panthers, continuing to speak to the benefits that our products bring.
And, obviously, you know us well enough to know we are not one of these out there trumpeting, gee, we are number one.
We beat this person.
We got this competitive win.
But, quietly, we are really proud of what we have done on the HPV franchise in the US.
And combined with psychology, combined with the co-testing message, combined with Panther placements, they are all -- no one thing is magic, but when you systematically pile them up, it provides a very nice outlook and has us feel pretty good.
This strength is going to continue.
It wasn't low.
It was extremely high, and we are going from an extremely high level to actually an even extremely higher level.
It was well into the 80s%, and we are doing even better than that.
Yes.
Sure.
I think it is less bundling internationally than it still -- the stage of development internationally.
We have not done nearly as good a job of selling the benefits of 3D.
Just from a government affairs standpoint, from a marketing standpoint, a lot of what we have going in the US, we are doing a great job of.
Internationally, because we are through dealers, we have not worked with them closely enough to really segment the market.
We were starting -- obviously, there was a lot of opportunities for 2D.
We need to do that.
But we have had so much focus on 3D, and I don't think we have just done as good a job of fully marketing it through.
So that is a part of the whole issue of consolidating the international business under Eric.
We have kind of -- I set it up when I first got here to have Eric really focus on the US, Claus focus internationally.
It probably led to two silos, more than sharing the learning across the geographies.
And, frankly, I feel like it has done a great job overall, but we have probably left a little bit on the table as it is related to our international development.
So now, Eric is on the case.
Here we go.
We are looking at it everywhere as to what is really the best model, and that will be something, I think, you can expect us to report back on over time.
I would tell you, there is a lot more complexity to it all in that, candidly, in a number of geographies, we had given the marketing authorizations to the dealers.
So the dealers actually own the marketing authorizations, which is not something you would typically expect of a company this size.
But it is one of these, as you go into the onion and peel it back a little more, there is more work to be done, which is why we just think it is going to take us a little bit longer.
I kind of view it as it will be a great thing to have in the out years when things slow down in the US.
We probably are not getting there as fast as I would like to, but we will probably end up getting there at a time that will be ultimately actually pretty well timed for the total Company.
All right, <UNK>.
Higher and higher.
Yes, we are not going to give you --
You asked for one word answers, <UNK>.
As a reminder, we are only going to give the placement numbers on an annual basis rather than getting into quarterly pieces, but we were very pleased with the additional placements of, certainly, the Genius systems and, frankly, Panthers as well, looking at our diagnostics business.
And then, gross margin, I think we are basically guiding to -- we think there is 100 basis points of improvement year over year and feeling very encouraged by that opportunity.
