That is correct
Yes, it has bottomed out because we implemented in third quarter so you have a fourth-quarter benefit.
Yes, as you would expect we look at all uses for our cash, including investing in the business, M&A, dividends and buybacks.
And we have a long history of share repurchase, especially to set off any dilution from the impacts of stock-based compensation.
I'm sure in the future we will continue to manage as we have in the past.
Good morning <UNK>
I apologize, we don't talk about forward quarters, so sorry for that, <UNK>.
Honestly, <UNK> we don't have a break out of that level.
The parts can cross end market so when we give you the general mix, we don't have specific trends by business by quarter.
I think to <UNK>'s earlier point, on when we were talking about on road utilization - there are aspects there that were encouraging on the OE channel.
Obviously last year we were hitting the first part of the destocking event that carried through the back half of the last year.
So that creates some relative ease in the year-over-year comp.
But in terms of end-market specific, there was nothing really that I could point to.
Sure.
<UNK> is looking that up.
And while he's does that we will move onto the next question.
Thank you.
Good morning, <UNK>.
<UNK>, this is <UNK>.
First I'd really like to say that I'm really very proud of the global organization for the expense control that they have shown, and their resilience throughout this fiscal year.
While we don't have anything to announce today, I also want to make the point that we always look at our business within an ongoing process, if you will, to make sure that we align expenses with overriding business conditions -- for Donaldson Company it's just standard work.
So our independent channel, was up overall in the quarter mid-single digits, low to mid-single digits, and then our OE channel was up low double digits.
High single, sorry.
High single, sorry.
Overall when you take the two components, it's clear to us that our strategies are working.
They're working in Europe, they're working in the United States, they're working over in Asia where we feel that we are winning share with our strategy.
And that's indicative, in this tough environment, of this aftermarket performance.
That concludes today's call.
I want to thank everyone for their time and interest in Donaldson Company.
I also want to thank our employees for what they do every day to support our customers.
Thank you, and goodbye.
