Good morning.
<UNK> this is <UNK>.
I didn't have anybody mention that when I talked to them.
We have few divisions outside of the U.S., our Osborne division and Telestat that manufacture outside the U.S. and Brazil which has not been great.
But those are three locations we are actually (inaudible) record technology.
So of that about 19% of our business last year probably half of that was exported in the U.S.
Yeah.
In a good year and in a good international year when international's 40% or whatever, it would be probably be upward of 75% when the dollar's weak and encouraging those folks overseas to buy.
But with the US dollar headwinds, I think <UNK>'s right.
The other thing I would add to that is can I visit Telestack too when I was over in Europe and I told you we've been very pleased with the acquisition.
Those guys are doing a great job and they've got a good backlog.
So they've been really a pleasure to have with us.
There is a frankly an oversupply of pellets because it's been warm on the private market.
In Europe they haven't needed as many pellets for the housing so there's an oversupply of pellets so there's some spot buying going on that's slowed it down.
The other thing that helps us feel good that it's going to come back is there's utilities coming online in 2018 and the demand is going to go up.
So that -- you don't have to have the housing market for the demand to go up.
Yep.
I'll get that right.
Let me get that number for you.
In the quarter Power Flame was -- it's about $8 million in revenues and ex-amortization which we've buried amortization of their intangibles as you know in acquisition accounting, they did about $350,000 of contribution profit before amortization.
'morning.
Sure.
Hey, this is <UNK>.
You know, actually until about two or three months ago, most of it's been pent up demand but we've had some new plants for new area purchases in the last two to three months.
It's now the pent up demand stage in my opinion.
I'll tell you, it's really consistent across the US.
It's more where it's not and where it's not is more the Dakotas still depressed.
But it's pretty active consistently across the country right now for us.
Thank you.
Thank you, Melissa.
We appreciate your participation in this fourth quarter conference call and thought for your interest in Astec.
As our news release indicates, today's conference call has been recorded.
A replay will be available through March 7, 2017 in and an archived webcast will be available for 90 days.
A transcript will be available under the investor relations section of the Astec Industries website within the next 7 days.
All of that information was contained in the news release that was sent out earlier today.
This will conclude our call.
Thank you, all.
Have a good week.
