I'll give you a general on the pipe.
Every year we always say that we have such scale that will I be sitting here in a year from now here telling you that I had 22,000 23,000 shows.
Yes.
We have no fear that our global staff - were the best at it.
We will continue to get our share of the market and slightly more.
Last year we had an exceptional, in the US only, an exceptional stadium year, had a lot of big stadium tours out last year.
We don't see that repeating this year.
But we are already seeing a much stronger arenas business this year, because the artists have decided maybe I'm not going to go in stadiums, but I'll do longer -- US states will come to life.
I think you'll also see some artists debate whether with the FX cost and the cost of business if they do a few more shows in America versus traveling overseas.
So we would look at the pipe, it will be consistent from a show count, total ticket number year over year.
We see it still being, given again it was a record year this year, which beat a record year the year before, so the benchmark continually gets higher.
But we think we will repeat history.
We think we'll have a strong arena market this year.
We think festivals in Europe will be stronger this year than last year.
And we think the EDM business, we are continually with Insomniac taking a very disciplined approach to how we will grow Electric Daisy, the main festival in Vegas.
We launched one last year in Mexico; we launched one in London.
We'll continue to launch a few more of those on a global basis this year.
And we continue to think EDM is a great channel to be in the portfolio and is providing some great advertising sponsorship opportunities.
As well as in 2015, it's the first year we'll officially move Insomniac all over to the Ticketmaster platform.
As we start to get the double benefit of feeding the ticketing and advertising pipe.
No, I would characterize it as I think it is a strong, stable global business.
But the reality of EDM is when you're not hitting mainline arenas, stadiums, and festivals, like country, rock and roll, pop, and urban, it is always going to be a small percent of our total business.
Because it is more about 10 great festivals of summer that matter versus 4,000 shows that happen across America that matter.
So great small niche business, but given it operates outside of the traditional venue platform, it will always be more eventism and smaller to the total business.
Thank you.
