Sure.
No worries.
Well, I think the retailers, as they bring in the omnichannel world to their physical stores, will certainly apply it to the outlet world as well.
Again there are all at different degrees of that integration.
But I don't think outlets would be ignored on that front at all.
So, I would expect that to be part of it.
Well, look, put it this way, I'm not surprised by Land and Buildings and Orange's -- that they might pursue something like this, or others.
But as you can see from their proxy materials, we are not participating or providing any financial support in their proxy.
But I'm not surprised that someone like them would take up this particular issue.
But again, we're not -- this is not us; this is them.
And I said to you, you can see it from their preliminary proxy stuff that we are not supporting or involved in that at all.
As a shareholder, we will wait and see what happens.
Well, look, that's up for Macerich to respond to.
I mean I can only tell you what I told you earlier, which is I think we put a hell of a deal on the table, and I was looking to engage with Art.
I consider Art a peer.
We've had a good relationship.
People say hostile offer.
I don't -- let me give you my thinking on this.
Any time somebody offers a lot of money to somebody, I never consider that hostile.
Okay.
Now it may not be -- it may be unsolicited.
But it ain't hostile.
Okay.
It ain't hostile.
So I hope Art and the Board realizes that I didn't view it as hostile.
I view it -- sure, it was unsolicited, but it was a hell of an offer done in the spirit of trying to negotiate a deal at a big number.
And I'll leave it at that.
It's yesterday's news.
But I'll leave it at that.
But it was not hostile.
Unsolicited, absolutely.
But again anytime I think -- I'm a simpleton when it comes to this -- but anytime you offer a big number to somebody I don't view that as hostile.
I just view that as the way of the world, I guess.
All right.
No worries.
All right, thank you, everyone, and take care and we will talk to you soon.
