As you know, we're seeing the average utilization rate is about 81% in the past one or two months, and was up compared to 78% a few weeks ago.
From a utilization perspective, yes, when we are seeing that is looking pretty good and I think you also asked a question about the OSATs.
We basically had about 66% in terms of OSAT compared to IDM, so volume has actually not what we consider as high.
So when the volumes are lower, you tend to see the OSAT percentage come down and the IDM pick up.
So I think we're seeing that in terms of this current quarter as well until basically the -- hopefully by, before Chinese New Year or after Chinese New Year we will get to see more volume.
But I think we did mention in the past there is some shift in terms of demand before Chinese New Year in the past two years, so perhaps this upcoming Chinese New Year we may see that again.
At this moment it's still normal packaging.
We see the demand increasing capacity of NAND at this moment.
I'm sorry, NAND and the 3D NAND But they do not use a change in technology of packaging at this moment.
We are seeing memory demands very strong, but I think it's a very difficult to predict the percentage change from here.
At this moment majority is not LED.
And we are quite actively looking into LED space.
I think it's -- we have been actually lower than that, but if you look at the last year or even 18 months we've been basically rounding out about the 20% level and we continue to see that.
We certainly would try to book most of our revenue as much as we can in a low tax jurisdiction like Singapore, but we are -- because of the various different product that we sell in the US or Japan, those markets have actually higher tax rates.
So this is what we're looking at this point in time.
I think at this point in time we are constantly assessing what kind of cash we have onshore.
We are in the tail end of our three-year $100 million stock repurchase plan, and if we actually do make that proposal to continue on with that after we finish that program, then we will have to bring more cash back.
And we will do so.
We certainly would need that to bring cash back to support our new program.
Thank you for the questions.
So <UNK> if I understand your question right, you are asking how is my view on our product portfolio in terms of IP.
Okay.
So let me put it this way.
I think we all know K&S we have core business in the ball bonder and the wedge bonder.
And last year I think this largely account for our maybe a little bit more than 90% of our total revenue.
And our advanced packaging is a little bit less than 10%.
So what our target 2017 is 15% to 20% of advanced packaging.
And advanced packaging we have two products in the market.
One is we call APAMA, this is with more accuracy and with a thermo-compression capability.
And the other product, I think you know that, and we call hybrid system.
And with these two system together, actually we can address all high growth in our market.
You know that we enter AP a little bit late, but I am confident, I think our target is going to be 15% to 20% revenue for 2017.
And I see we have a good product and not of course, we don't address everything with leadership at this moment, but I'm confident I think we will continue to increase our throughput and we will make a meaningful improvement in 2017, and hopefully 2018 we'll get even more market shares.
So I don't know if I answered your questions.
The high market growth area we define as SiP, I think is a very important technology, and also fan-out as well as the high accuracy flip chip and also our C2S, C2W with a thermo-compression products.
Okay.
I'll answer that.
I think in terms of the cash, we reported $547 million and substantially that's mostly offshore.
I think with the -- obviously with the new administration coming in, the President-elect, it sounds like we have to wait and see, it sounds like things could actually positive, if they put through some of the things that he basically made from a promise perspective during the campaign.
So we certainly are anxious to see if any of these tax reforms actually go through.
Clearly the 10% repatriation rate will be fantastic, but we're always not sitting on our laurels.
We basically are always planning on ways to actually bring back cash with minimum cash leakage and we are continuing to improve our efficiency, how we operate our international business as we go which we actually mentioned earlier.
So I think given time, in terms of if we have more efficient ways to bring back cash, we certainly have a lot of use for that and that could include all things that you mentioned, including stock repurchase.
Thank you.
