The last one is easy.
The new stores are doing very, very well, and they are showing a promise beyond that, which they are doing.
So, we are learning from them.
We are on the eve of having -- from the tests that we put out there -- I'm going to call this phase testing a prototype to having a prototype that we think will carry well into the future, so we are pretty pleased with that.
Obviously, we have the -- we will have the task, if we are sure of what we see is working, we will have the task of opening more stores and actually changing, relocating stores perhaps within the same market.
So, what we may be doing is closing one and opening one in the same marketplace, which we know how to do, and has long been our practice.
Regarding the CEO, what can I tell you.
I'm happy I'm doing what I'm doing.
I've worked harder for the past six or nine months than in the past 20 years.
I have been the chairman of several companies for many years, and now I'm all-in with Barnes & Noble.
We have -- regarding our search, we have a spectacular new Chief Operating Officer in Demos Parneros.
He is intelligent.
He is vastly experienced in retail.
He's run more than 3,000 stores for Staples.
He is a lifetime retailer.
He's very smart.
He has taken to this job.
He is all-in.
He certainly is a top candidate for the CEO position.
The board will be considering and I will be considering where we go with the search.
I have to say that I'm still committed to the Company no matter what so that, when we do put in a CEO, I will stay, at least for some period, remain at least for some period as the Chairman.
Al and Mary.
Yes, the markdowns affected the margins for the quarter, as we called out.
It was really to move merchandise following the holiday sales shortfall.
The coloring book products were at higher margins than the prior year, so that does affect our mix a bit.
And you also have the pressures of the comps, and what it does, because we put our occupancy up in the margin section, so you're also fighting that.
But other than that, there wasn't any seismic shifts in our product lines that would have caused any product mix.
Obviously, the less devices you sell, those are at lower margins, that does help your mix as well.
Great.
Thank you operator, and thank you, everyone, for joining us on today's call and for your interest in Barnes & Noble.
Our year-end release will be released on or about June 22.
Have a good day everyone.
