In terms of the prototype, <UNK>, we have opened a couple of stores.
They are more open in feel, slightly lighter in terms of the ambience, and we made adjustments to the way that we lay the product out.
So far the results are encouraging, but it's very early days.
In terms of pricing, pricing really is an ongoing thing that we look at on a continual basis.
There's no strategic shift in pricing other than we have to be very mindful of our brand positioning and we have to be competitive.
Then in terms of the organizational structure and people, quite a few hires obviously are now embedded in the business and they are all making an impact on the improvements that hopefully we will see in the brand next year.
Like you say, the balance of the assortment is an evolution.
It's a continual process and it's something we change on a reactionary basis to what customers need.
Essentials is a very important part of the mix, but so is more improved and a higher design content product.
So all I can say really, <UNK>, is that it's something that is a continual process.
From the Hollister perspective, it's part of our good/better/best pricing strategy and we are currently finding success, both with our entry level with the must-haves as well as our fashion offerings.
It has been a nice balance between the two.
We, too, are encouraged by the positive response.
Clearly, as we've discussed several times today, our conversion has been up significantly, domestically and internationally, which signals that the customer likes what we're putting out there.
And we'd like to believe that that will continue.
<UNK>, some of that remains to be seen as we move through the quarter, but what we can see today: from a top-line perspective we do see the FX pressure abating, but still being a headwind, so abating from what we've seen in the prior few quarters.
However, as you mentioned, the hedging benefits -- we had larger hedging benefits last year in the fourth quarter as we were just stepping into these rate declines that we don't expect to anniversary.
So on the margin line we expect the FX headwinds to be very consistent with what we've seen for the prior quarters, but on the top line abating somewhat.
In the fourth quarter, right.
There is obviously a big dependency on the exchange rates, so based on -- however, we do have some hedging benefit that we experienced pretty much throughout the year this year that we'll be up against next year.
So obviously very much dependent on where the currency rates and how they move through the year, but we have a known headwind on the hedging benefits from this year going into next year.
