Good question.
I do think we have the natural ebbs and flows relative to refreshing of our IT systems.
So, we are going through this little patch in the fourth quarter that I mentioned, where we're making some -- what I would characterize as some larger investment on our IT and technology side.
One of the trends, though, that we may be seeing a bit of is -- some of the technology that we're going to be purchasing for the business is in the form of non-capitalized IT.
So we may end up, over time -- I would say that that's a little bit of a trend that I'm seeing -- may flow into more on the operating side, operating expense, as opposed to necessarily showing up on the CapEx side.
So, hopefully that's helpful.
It's a little hard to go ahead and say what the baseline is, given some of the ebbs and flows on some of the larger investment.
I think so.
Yes, I would say -- I don't want to go ahead and establish necessarily a long-term margin target for the segment.
The segment is performing well.
We still think that there is certain opportunities for us to work on.
In particular as we've talked about, the TDMP part of that business tends to run at a little bit lower margin than the consulting side.
So, as we continue to work on and focus that business, we would hope that there's some opportunities there.
But we are pleased with how the business is running, what the team is doing with it; but we still see some things to continue to go after.
<UNK>, we talked about earlier on, when we made the investment in our revenue cycle management solutions, that that would be at a different margin profile.
So, I would anticipate, as that grows, that that will put some downward pressure on the margin.
At the same time, we're really having robust performance on the consulting side.
So, if you were to separate the two of them, I think that there is potential for healthcare consulting, certainly.
But you're looking at a combination, and BPMS simply is a much higher organic growth business, but a different margin profile than consulting.
Correct.
I think you asked the question on the last call: did I say plural.
And I did.
And that remains the case.
Now, what I would say is we want to be measured in our approach here.
They're obviously just the nature of the business.
We just went ahead and raised the whole EPS by $0.10.
And I would just characterize it as being measured.
I think there's obviously some drivers that can take that up or down, relative to what I would characterize as a continued very strong performance in some of our different segments.
So, I don't think there's anything particular that I would point to, other than just the flows and the pace of the business.
I think there's always some risk that if we were to lose an engagement unexpectedly, that that could be something that could bring the business down.
We're feeling good.
We're not anticipating anything disruptive in the business.
But you always do have the risk that something that would end a little bit more abruptly.
<UNK>, as we talked about throughout the year, strong performance, expecting to be on the upper ends of our guidance ranges.
And we decided now that we had three-quarters of the year behind us, that would be good time to move on the range.
We don't talk publicly about all the -- what we call the risks and opportunities that we build into our forecasting and planning.
We have them.
Every other company out there in the world has them.
Those are the potential upsides and downside that could impact your business, and so that's kind of what you see built into that.
And I don't know, <UNK>, is there anything else you'd add.
But given that we're a project -- we're still a project-based -- as much as we built recurring revenues into our business portfolio, we're still a project-based organization.
And so we probably have to have a bit more of a conservative approach than maybe a product-based organization simply because of that, because the client can suddenly decide to change things up on us.
So, we feel really good about the year and what we have put out in our guidance, but we have to acknowledge that those risks and opportunities are out there.
And I believe that's the last question.
So thanks, everybody, for joining, and we look very much forward to releasing full-year results and sharing 2017 expectations at that time.
Operator.
Thank you.
