Yes.
Basically what's happening, <UNK> is that the shops aren't operating optimally as they absorb the NPI.
Pricing-wise in the quarter we spiked it out but not meaningful.
If you look at the quarter at a higher level, what you see is that the predominant impact was as a result of overall sales volume.
And that was driven, <UNK>, by three primary things.
One was, if you recall, the pistons and cylinders that we lost last year and are currently in a dispute over, that was a portion of it.
The lower RSPs, which are high margin in the quarter, and then the combination of those two with the new program ramps were the majority of what made up the change in up margin.
Correct.
Thank you.
Yes, this is <UNK>.
So on the operating margins side, as you mentioned, right, NGP, we went through a significant investment to increase the internal capacity given the global growth out of NGP as well as their expansion into machine and vehicle as <UNK> noted before.
We went through a period of time where we had to outsource a lot of that work.
We're now in the throes of being able to insource and take on that capacity in house.
We've gone back to margin profiles that were consistent with the past as you mentioned -- the higher margin profile of NGP, higher margin profile out of Synventive within molding solutions.
Those are driving some pretty good favorability on the operating margin side, with the fact that we closed out to quarter at 17%.
As you noted, we don't disclose margins below that.
But we're on the higher end of that mid-teens clearly and hope to continue to drive productivity improvements and leverage the growth we talked about before in the second half.
We had a very strong second quarter, both in terms of operational performance as well as productivity.
We continue that into the second half of the year.
We'll definitely be on the high side of those mid-teens.
Driving the Barnes enterprise system is clearly a global sourcing, functional excellence, the operational excellence, clearly has taken root within our industrial segment.
Thank you, Ed.
