Thank you.
Thanks, <UNK>.
I will start with the second question first in regards to Europe.
Europe only represents about 3% of our overall sales today.
We're clearly growing right now from an organic standpoint in Europe.
We'll continue to grow based on opportunities that are presenting themselves there across various product lines that we offer.
But also, we'll look at inorganic or strategic growth in Europe to grow our overall business and our presence there.
Again, all in the effort of diversifying our customer, our products, and our geographic footprint.
With respect to Thailand, clearly you understand the Thailand market's been down.
We've again adjusted our business accordingly to what we need to do.
More importantly for us, what's exciting for us is launching this new Ford program, our first-ever drive-live contract with them.
That launches this year.
Our team is absolutely ready for that launch.
The answer is yes.
It operates within the existing footprint and structure.
We've had to make a few capital investments to support the requirements, but minimal.
We should see decent returns on that investment.
<UNK>, the foreign-exchange benefit that we quantified is the marked to market re-measurement gain on the balance sheet.
That was about $2 million in the first quarter 2015, down from $6.7 million a year-ago level, or sequentially last quarter.
Well, that's right.
The other way that the currency benefits the Company is currency move relative to the US peso is that to the extent we're being paid in dollars and have some portions of our expenses in pesos that benefits us.
I'm not sure, are you talking annual or sequential.
I know, but --
Year over year.
We're probably in the neighborhood of $4 million benefit.
Right now all the derivatives or programs are through Chrysler at this time, but we do have other ones in our backlog that will be launching going forward here.
No.
Yes <UNK>, absolutely we think it's going to flatten out around these levels.
The program is fully launched.
Really, the last quarter where we had any substantial increase in activity is this quarter, as the SUVs and heavy duty pickup trucks launched a year ago.
Relative to that, we don't expect any significant changes.
Seasonal changes in four-wheel-drive penetration, that type of thing, could have some impacts, but they should be relatively modest.
<UNK>, we're not in a position to comment on that at this time.
You need to have any discussions with GM regarding that matter.
We're not at liberty to speak on that.
