Yes.
So on STAR WARS, I think I gave some pretty good guidance that STAR WARS was very similar to 2005 last movie year.
We used to give out specific percentage of revenues.
For a whole host of reasons, we no longer feel that that's specifically required.
So I'd rather just give you some guidance up against the prior movie year.
NERF, it is the largest brand at Hasbro if you include all brands, including franchise and partner brands, every brand.
It's the largest brand in our portfolio.
And -- (multiple speakers)
And MY LITTLE PONY, we're talking about the licensing income -- so this is in our -- within the entertainment and licensing segment, our new rebranded team of consumer products personnel generated the largest amount of revenues from MY LITTLE PONY business, up significantly versus year ago, and that's what we were referring to.
And I am not going to give you a percent as it relates to E&L.
Thank you.
Yes, we made changes in our North American operation back in 2012, and reorganized that business, and working with our retail partners.
We believe that North American profitability is now at a new level, and it's a relatively sustainable level.
Obviously, there will be some ups and downs over time by bits, but over time it can also grow, as we continue to leverage our brands.
I think international is just impacted by FX.
And maybe <UNK>, do you want to talk absent ex-FX, where those margins were, because they were very healthy margins absent FX.
Yes, absolutely.
I mean, every one of our components of our international segment were up, absent FX, and operating profit was negatively impacted because of the FX impact.
But again, so much of this year in the segments as well, product mix had a big impact on operating profit for the segments, as well as the cost savings.
And we continue to get cost savings through our ongoing initiatives.
As you know, we don't -- we had a $100 million cost saving initiative a few years back, which we completed in 2015.
But really ongoing cost savings has always been a part of our business.
And many of things you've see us invest in, and are running through some of the lines like product development and SG&A, are ongoing investments to further decrease costs throughout our business, including in our international segment.
We continue to make investments in the business to really reflect things in the currencies, and to take costs out of the business of where we're actually incurring our revenues.
So over time, our expectation is that you'll see more -- our margins in the different operating segments come closer to each other.
Now if you think about international, you have lot of different markets [in those].
So just by their own nature, they are going to have a slightly higher administrative expenses.
So will they ever be 100% the same.
I don't know.
But they will move closer over time, based on all the initiatives we are undertaking in the Company.
Yes, and we have seen some great growth in several of the emerging markets.
We talked about north of 20% growth in Russia and Brazil.
In China, this past year, our largest brand in China continues to be TRANSFORMERS, so you are up against a movie year.
I think that has more of a temporal impact in the year.
And over time, I would expect the trends that we've seen in our emerging market business and profitability to continue, continued improvement toward the Company average operating profit margin.
And as <UNK> said, there is some puts and takes over time, as we continue to expand our capabilities, but we're trend right.
Well, the brand performed very well for us in a non-movie year, coming off of 2014's movie.
It was down much less than one expects.
We've talked a lot about what brands do in the years following movies, and TRANSFORMERS really bucked that trend for the full year, being down about one-third versus a typical more closer to 50%.
So the television and other entertainment has really helped to support the brand, and to help drive our brand globally.
And I'll give you some more color on our entertainment plans, what's coming out of the writer's room, and plans for TRANSFORMERS theatrically by Friday.
Thank you, Rob, and thank you for joining the call today.
The replay will be available on our website in approximately two hours.
Additionally, Management's prepared remarks will be posted on our website following this call.
Our Investor event at Toy Fair is being held this Friday, February 12, and our first quarter 2016 earnings release is tentatively scheduled for Monday, April 18.
Thank you.
