I would say as we rebid activity it is a little bit basin dependent.
Some areas we are still seeing as we rebid work that they are coming down.
And in others we see they are flat and not really changing much.
And then there's some specific items where we see slight increases on some tangibles.
But they are relatively minor it was really overall down for 2Q and we've locked in stuff for 3Q.
We don't really see a change there.
I hope that gives you the color you were looking for.
I think am following your question.
So, when we forecast production for a year we have certain declines baked in.
And as we are enhancing our completions we don't have a real good ability to say exactly how well it'll do so will decline wells away.
And when they come on really strong and we can see it with really high pressures and then as we start producing those pressures decline less rapidly than they would have previously.
And so we are able to open the choke and the rate is maintained.
And we found that we are getting five, six months type of plateau levels on our wells.
So when we got into 2Q we have those wells and those figures five of them started last year and then six of them started during the quarter.
That's really where the over achievement came from.
So it's not so much the base declines on the other wells it's not getting on decline as fast on wells that came on last year and the new ones this year.
Does that makes sense.
Yes.
I'll just chime in there too, I think it's important as you look at the press release, we did experience some delays in the Bakken on a number of our completions which hurt us on the oil rate.
But we offset that basically got right back to our target numbers on oil because our Permian wells have been outperforming so much, again relative to our expectations.
No more plans to drill the Middle Spraberry.
We locked in our program which is really Wolfcamp B and lower Spraberry focused because we knew what the expectations were for those.
And we basically we're really working to optimize our program.
And that's why we're getting the cost reductions we're seeing, the capital reductions we're seeing.
So we're not going to drill another Middle Spraberry well this year.
That is a pretty broad question.
This is <UNK>.
In general we're obviously very interested in continuing to improve the quality of our assets.
The types of acquisitions we look at and are interested in are ones which will perform as well as or better than our best assets.
We look at every deal that comes up in our core areas.
Certainly the Permian Basin is an area of great interest to us.
And we look at everything that has come up.
I appreciate the fact that when you look at the headline numbers on Permian deals they seem expensive.
But I think a lot of the reason for that is that people are simply proving up more and more intervals there.
If you actually look at it on a per interval basis I still think the numbers are not unreasonable.
We are continuing to look at those and I wouldn't be surprised at all certainly we are going to focus on that.
I don't know that there is a size limit that we necessary look at there.
There's a lot of creative ways to do these deals.
And I think you have to keep your mind open a little bit to that as we move forward.
We don't have a defined plan yet as I said I think at capital level similar to this year we believe that a $50 and $3 world we can grow within our cash flows next year.
We have several different scenarios we've looked at between the Eagle Ford and the Permian.
Moving rigs around that can get us to that.
I don't have exact rig counts to give you yet.
Thank you.
Well I think it's clear everybody is out looking at inventory numbers now.
I haven't seen them yet, I will look forward to that.
Thank you so much for today for your questions and for your interest in our Company.
We look forward to talking to you again next quarter.
Thanks.
