On the API they are all different.
Some of them are exclusive, some of them are not.
They tend to stay with us for a long time when they integrate with us because it's a pretty deep partnership.
But it's something we focus on.
We have a team and we continue to build out.
And as it relates to the growth in enterprise customers, it's coming equally from expansion of new customers as well as growth with existing customers.
As they see the benefits of the platform, as we continue to enhance the platform, as we listen to their needs and solve their problems and workflow issues I think that will even become a greater amount of connectivity with our customers.
We've just added music to our enterprise platform and so we're also rolling out editorial on our enterprise platform.
And so therefore we only see future growth continuing and accelerating from here.
Operator, we have time for one last question please.
So we don't actually speak to specific growth of enterprise.
But what we have said in the past where it is directionally and it's now approximately it's more than 25% of our overall revenue.
And so that is certainly as <UNK> said important as we've grown the customers as well as the amount of business with each of those customers.
As it relates to Red Bull Media and our deal with Penske Media that we closed in 2015, we haven't discussed specifics but in terms of what it does for our business I think a couple of things.
It makes our platform, overall platform more desirable by customers.
It attracts both other contributors and other players because they want to be part of that platform.
We are an extremely customer-friendly organization and I think that that has historically differentiated us from some others.
And so being able to provide this first-rate, high-quality content in real-time really puts us in a very good position with our customers.
But once again it's not beneficial to break that out independent of any other the overall business.
Thanks everybody for joining us today.
We appreciate your time and if you have any follow-up questions please let us know.
We're happy to answer them over the next couple of days.
Thanks.
