Well in terms of our outlook for the seGment we guided to 10% growth which is still our outlook there.
I think there's various product categories that are up and down for the year, so that's in general where we see things.
And could you repeat your second question, please.
Well I think it's really in product roadmap and the products that we have in the market, so the newer products should help us stabilize our gross margin.
Our running line now is getting fully populated with wrist-based heart rate which is helping as well.
So we feel like those things will contribute to stabilization.
Well, we think that the margin levels in Fitness should be somewhere in the low to mid 50s so that's about where we're targeting.
So actually there was little impact of FX on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
When you look at the euro of last quarter 2015 versus Q1 of 2016, and then also you had Taiwan dollar impacting that a little bit gross margin.
So as it relates for the full year, we're basically, if we stay somewhere [we're at] we're probably anticipating little impact.
No.
We don't anticipate any impact relating to those regulations on our tax rate.
I think year-over-year, <UNK>, as I mentioned our product line is extremely strong this year.
We had products early in Q1.
Our comparable last year of Q1 of 2015 was quite a bit easier than what it will be in Q2.
So all of those factors led to some early growth in Marine for this year.
No, we don't think so.
In Marine I mentioned there's a product mix factor there, so that's very understandable.
I think Outdoor fluctuates up and down, so really no change there.
Aviation is pretty steady.
And Automotive has been pretty steady as well.
Okay, thanks, <UNK>.
Kind of hitting from the top there terms of our rebranding of the PND products.
Yes indeed, we are rebranding intentionally, and we felt like Nuvi has served us well over the years, but also probably doesn't recognize some of the great new features that have been brought into the product line over the years, and in particular you mentioned that the safety features we have, we have lane departure warnings, we have camera features in the product with collision warnings.
So we felt like it was time to recast the Nuvi line into something else.
In terms of infotainment, those sales that we referred to were system sales that are done on a [cord install] basis with automotive carmakers in APac and also the Middle East.
And then finally on Fitness, vivofit 3 has really started shifting now so I would say Q2 impact, not a Q1 impact.
At this point it's limited.
This is one of the reasons why we keep healthy levels of safety stock and at this point, we're working through that, but at this moment we don't have any material impact.
Yes, so maybe to clarify on that.
We went through a two-step process in getting to wrist heart rate.
The first step was with a third-party solution, with our Forerunner 225, and then we transitioned to a Garmin solution after that on our Forerunner 235 and our Fenix3 HR.
In terms of margin structure, certainly the wrist-based heart rate products are lower structure margin than our chest-based.
But at the same time, our Elevate technology is much higher margin structure than when we were using a third party, so it is improving from where we were in that interim step, but not necessarily compared to the chest-based solutions of the past.
I think those markets are fairly niched and retailers don't carry a lot of inventory, so the sellthrough has been fairly robust.
There's been a lot of spring promotions around the some of the Marine products and it's been doing very well in channels like Bass Pro and Cabelas.
I think we're actually seeing very good results in the European region.
In terms of the market development there, Europe is probably behind that of the US, so there's a growing market there and players are establishing themselves including Garmin.
We've also seen strong uptake of wearables in APac including both Fitness based wearables as well as Outdoor based wearables.
Yes, definitely the US is still growing, no question about that, but it's a more mature market than those other regions.
Well I think two things in Outdoor that really drove the growth was Fenix line and also dog products.
Those are the two major drivers.
There was some incremental contribution by golf but the other two were really the major contributors.
Fenix has been strong in recent quarters, and over 2015 we're going to now start to comp against those strong results in Q2, Q3, and Q4 with Fenix.
So we're going to have to navigate that in terms of comparables, but so for the product has been very strong, especially since we've added wrist-based heart rate to it.
I think we still see challenges in Aviation like we noted in the remarks.
Some of the underlying factors that have slowed the market recently are still there.
But for us, new platforms have been a big driver of the success, and we're seeing some incremental increase in revenue in the retrofit side too, especially in ADS-B products.
I think we're looking for strong growth really in both of those categories and that's what we experienced in Q1.
That's been what we've been experiencing, yes.
I think theoretically the size of those markets is really driven by population and especially population that's interested in health and fitness.
I would say generally Europe should match the profile pretty well.
I think in APac of course there's a lot of populations but maybe not yet the kind of lifestyle or health focus like what you have in the US and Europe markets.
So nevertheless I think there's still good uptick of Fitness products in APac.
I think they're very interested in running products as well as fitness and multisport products.
