Thanks <UNK>, I know you guys have a busy day today with lots of earnings coming out.
Sure I will run through -- they all vary as you can imagine based on their complexity.
The Anacostia sulfides at the top is about a two-year process to work that through pre-fease and onto definitive feasibility.
Awonsu and Apensu Deeps are really underground extensions around Ahafo and that's really primarily a combination of drilling and how things work.
That's probably more of the two to three-year time frame.
Ahafo North is more in the three-year timeframe as we work through the next stages for that project.
Tanami expansion 2, I would see in that same sort of two- to three-year time frame, so -- it says below three to five years at the bottom.
And then Federation the same thing, it's really getting the extension.
Tanami expansion 2 by the way is a shaft is what we are looking at for production there because the deposit extends so much at depth.
So hopefully that gives you an idea, and that was the idea of putting the years at the bottom.
Three to five as a general kind of a rule.
But they all vary little bit around there.
The debt is all paid off, so there is no debt coming, that is something that we handled already so that will not effect it.
There are some deposits that the buyers already made.
So that has an impact on it.
And then we will also, from an accounting standpoint, we will note any cost of it.
But for the most part you will get most of that money just coming directly through the $875 million that is on the slide is what we expect to come through.
Thanks <UNK>.
Thank you and thank you all for joining the call this morning.
I know you've got lots of activity going on in this space.
The Newmont Team delivered another strong quarter and our work to raise our performance to the next level continues.
We are also pleased to share good news which includes appointing experience Finance Leader Nancy Buese to the role of Executive Vice President and CFO effective October 31, announcing higher dividends in the fourth quarter, and an enhanced dividend policy for 2017, and a $500 million debt tender.
Delivering Merian into commercial production safely on schedule, and more than $150 million under budget.
Thank you again for your time and have a safe day.
