There's a firm employee per month on each module.
We're not going into the pricing of every single module but the cumulative amount of the modules is (inaudible), like I said, is around $30.
When we look at modules, we look at the value to our clients and what's right in the marketplace.
And that's how we price.
And then sometimes we try and, you know, dig into the modules to make them worth more.
A specific module, which have done in the past, and gotten some other modules that might of started out at $1.00 per employee per month and became $2.00 per employee per month because of the features and functionality we added to it.
So same game plan as we've been doing since 2002 when we were the first [tasks] vendor out there.
Yes, it's just, <UNK>, we're really talking about very small dollars here so, and it's happened in the past.
And, I wouldn't, yes, there's plenty of backfill for it but, again, that goes to the comment about the 99% return revenue guidance.
(Inaudible).
Yes, when you have the best first quarter that we've ever had it obviously filled a lot of the, you know, rest of the year and that.
And then, you know, we have to execute in Q2, Q3, and Q4 like we always do.
It's been consistent and it's been pretty consistent about 65% of our business comes from service bureaus, nothing's changed.
Yes, I hate talking about what our competitors do.
But obviously for someone to look at anyone in any business, your client has to be dissatisfied with something and if they're dissatisfied, then they may start looking.
In any business if someone doesn't keep their clients happy, then they might go out there to look and as people go out to look and we get the opportunity to run our process, we have a very high rate to get the business if they're interested in payroll, HR and HCM function.
Obviously I think we're the best out there so we need the opportunity and if anyone out there is not keeping their clients happy, that puts them in play and that's good for us
Thank you
I think I said that on the ERP side, the percentage of business, especially in enterprise that we're getting from the ERPs, has grown over the years.
So I think there are, you know, ERPs in general I think when renewals are up, that some of them tend to be looking and so I think it gives us an opportunity.
So I think the percentage of business we do get from them has grown from the past.
And I believe will continue to grow.
I think we can sense that it will continue to grow
I think that the major part is the on premise and to a less, much lesser extent right now, the people who signed up for other staff over the last few years.
Once you sign up, it does take a while to go through the initial implementation starts so I would say to a much lesser extent that.
Sales and marketing, again it's marginally lower but, you know, our marketing department deploys different marketing programs depending on what they feel is the best thing to do.
It's fairly small.
Some of it has to do with, you know, company-wide our medical insurance came in, you know, our medical costs came in better than we expected.
You know, does that turn around.
We don't know.
But again it's relatively small in the scheme of things.
And, <UNK>, he was asking about the cadence of business.
What.
Cadence of business.
A year ago it was driving it, the year before it was driving it.
I mean we basically over we've gone 14 years at 25% recurring revenue growth.
I think one year we were at, like, 23% and so I just think it's the growth of the company, the growth of the sales organization, maintaining 97% client base, retention of our client base.
Having a 95% reference level client base.
Keeping, 94% retention of our people, keeping our team strong.
So if that's cadence, then our cadence is really good and it's getting better all the time.
We appreciate you all on your time.
Mitch, thanks for 73 great earnings call.
See you next time.
Thanks.
All the best.
