Yes, I think I will just repeat it for everybody.
What we've been doing for a year now is watching our FTE assets and being very prudent about where we have them.
We've recently gone through a rationalization program where our lower performers that were not not performing, just not at the highest level given the importance of an FTE, we've now used a Company program to do a talent upgrade and effectively eased people out of the Company.
And on top of that, in the last quarter, we added this discretionary expense review, which is the other half of the expense category and start looking at where we don't need to be spending money at this point in time until rates move.
And that's something we gave some color around.
I said that in the quarter four it will be a $10 million to $15 million net benefit that we wouldn't have had if we hadn't taken that extra action.
For 2016, it will obviously be more than that, but we are not ready to size it because I am also not going to necessarily give you guys a sense that all expenses stop because we are just reallocating them to the right things and in some cases, we are going to be investing in places we haven't in the past.
So too early to rate for 2016, but definitely a net positive and our goal is to get to the deposit operating leverage at the minimum annual level starting next year.
Yes, I would say it's up from a reported number and that's principally driven, as we've said, by the fact that our tax credit amortization expense at quarter four is our seasonally highest increase related to tax credit amortization expense.
And we said that that would probably go up in the range of about $65 million to $75 million, similar to what we saw in previous trends.
And then you could expect to see that increase being partially offset by some of the elevated costs that we've called out here in quarter three.
No, I don't remember being that strong, but I would say it's not getting worse.
I know I said that before.
Undeniably, it's not getting worse.
Things aren't going backwards.
People aren't going in the direction of not investing.
People aren't afraid to buy cars.
People aren't afraid to use their credit line.
I think for a more political discussion, there is the haves and have-nots and the barbell of who is participating and who's not is greater than it used to be.
But being a prime-only lender and being at a pretty high quality on the line of customers, we are not impacted mostly by that and we are feeling a small, slow, steady, almost monotonous, I will call torturously slow improvement over the course of time.
I do believe, <UNK>, I've always believed it, I could be totally wrong and happy to be if I am, but when the first rate moves, a real move, not a thought of it, not a predilection of it, not a guess of it, I do think that the corporate America starts to move quickly and they will start to take advantage first because they have the most to gain.
And then I think they will start to create some incentive -- create consumerism and I think we are off to the races.
I think for the first time business will draw us out of the slow recovery than consumers.
And while we will call it a recovery because is not a recession, it still feels slow and very measured.
So I'm not writing home about it.
Without interest rates moving, you just keep seeing us all doing a little more of what we were doing before, managing to the needs of customers who do have the wherewithal and do have the motives to want to keep growing and benefiting in their lives.
But plenty of people aren't playing yet and the savers are getting killed.
Yes, there's two ways -- two answers to that.
One is mobile transitions to banking channels.
We are spending money on that.
We've talked about our growth, our hundreds of people in Atlanta that work on those topics.
I haven't starved that one bit because that is the changing environment we are in.
We have to be a leader on that.
We are expected to be and we have to invest, so that's a good ROI in the long term, not a near-term ROI.
The other one, <UNK>, is we are spending money on compliance.
What I've learned, if you've heard my speech before, it's like we've gone from baggage handlers to pilots.
Same company.
Baggage handlers every once in a while make a mistake and up until now, it's okay, no one loses their life.
But pilots in the same company can't crash a plane.
I've had to move all of our employees from baggage handlers to pilots and we are still in that transition.
The regulators have required that of us as well.
So I am spending money on either back office or more often than not technology to replace some of the error-ridden places where human interaction creates an outcome that's not acceptable anymore and that investment is worth it, not because it's a better product necessarily, but because it's a better compliance outcome and it's a safer way to earn when you don't have the potential of penalties and fines and risks.
So those are two things that have not been touched.
Other things would be the more attractive ways to just increase the capabilities you do in the back office that no one really sees, but it's just more elegant, less involvement where people have to touch customers, where customers can self-serve, all those things are -- some of those are nice to have.
Where they are not required, we are holding back on those and those will be the things we will add back the minute we start seeing revenue growth.
Thanks, everybody.
Thank you.
Thanks, Melissa.
