<UNK>, first of all on the consumer credit, a lot of folks are just switching back and forth carriers and lot of that is taking place there.
We had a lot of non-pay.
We just tightened up on those folks who were not paying basically and switching back and forth.
So we think -- we know we're through the majority of that, but there could be -- we'll continue to see the impact of this going forward.
But the majority of what caused the initial hit, I think we're through most of that.
And on the breakdown between fiber to the node and the non-fiber to the node, we really don't break that out.
But I can tell you <UNK>, that our best penetration, really, in the markets where we have the higher speeds.
And that's why we're focussed on investing more in access in 2016 to provide higher speeds for our customers such that it will give us a better opportunity to gain them as a customer.
So really the outlook for cash taxes is the same as it was last quarter.
Basically our most current information is that we really believe bonus depreciation is squarely in the radar of congressional leaders.
The House Ways and Means Committee cleared legislation, making 50% bonus depreciation part of the permanent tax code.
And the Senate Finance Committee included a two-year extension of the 50% bonus retroactive to 2015 and 2016 with their extenders package.
We believe the extenders package is going to move along and we really think that the Senate staff has been really outspoken to our people in terms of getting bonus depreciation this year.
So we feel more comfortable that we'll have bonus depreciation in 2015 and 2016, than we did last quarter.
And we felt pretty good about it then.
So, <UNK>, that's one of the things we'll have to work through as we get further into the process.
But our target is really still about three times.
We have said that we'll allow that to drift up if EBITDA deteriorates and we see EBITDA turning around out to ultimately bring the leverage back down.
So we really wouldn't be really held by a rating, more or less, in terms of keeping our EBITDA within a ratings range.
But we'll just determine once we get closer to the execution of the opportunity of the data centers as to where we might go with the proceeds there.
Thank you, Sayeed.
Overall, I'll just say I believe we have the best portfolio of assets we ever had at the Company.
Now it's really about execution.
We're taking these assets, leveraging and positioning them to drive future revenue growth, EBITDA growth and shareholder value.
While there will be quarterly ups and downs, CenturyLink's long-term trajectory, in my view, is as positive as it's ever been.
Look forward to working with you all in the months ahead.
Thank you for joining our call today and look forward to speaking with you at the fourth-quarter call.
Thank you.
