Relationship with who, I'm sorry, Chris.
Mitel.
Yes.
So for us, we're pretty used to the way these things work when a key supplier, key vendor has a key channel they want to move to distribution is we have to make sure we do it at the pace of the customer.
And so it generally takes longer than people expect it to happen.
But certainly, we expect it to be a very successful transition.
And so we've had to, again, make some investments in SG&A to support this.
And this is part of that additional investments that we talked about earlier in this call.
We have to, if you will, invest ahead of the revenue and the margin so that we're prepared to not skip a beat when this business comes our way.
And it's important to Mitel that we transition this business successfully.
And frankly, our history with transitioning these businesses is once they're transitioned they grow.
And that is the ultimate measure of how successful it is, is do we take this business that was formerly direct and grow it more than it was before.
And that is our goal: to take this business that's transitioning and grow it.
So over the next 2 to 3 quarters, we'll be able to see the results of this for sure.
Well, we have been the beneficiary of 2 dynamics that are going on with Intelisys.
One is this shift to the indirect channel by traditional carriers.
And that has been driving the growth in the past, and I think that has contributed for sure to this 20% number.
I think the other thing that's going on are these -- this expanded line card, if you will, of vendors, supplies.
So whether it -- if you look at the Intelisys list -- and I don't want to list everybody because then it'll take me a few minutes because we now have about 50 or 60 key suppliers there, but just as a placeholder -- these are the RingCentrals of the world, the UCaaS vendors.
And using them as the placeholder, those vendors are all showing growth in their markets dramatically.
And Intelisys is taking market share from their competitors; meaning the other master agents that are working with these suppliers, we're growing faster than the market.
So we think the market study that suggests the UCaaS is growing at a CAGR of about 10% and about 13% -- it's growing about 13% in the cloud space.
And if we're growing at the rates we are, we're going faster than that is my point.
So we're getting market share in an already growing marketplace, and that's what's exciting.
And that's why we believe there is an opportunity to gain unusual share within this UCaaS space, and that leads us to have the confidence to make these what we're calling internally some accelerated investments in Intelisys.
Great.
Thanks for joining us today.
We expect to hold our next conference call to discuss June 30th quarterly and full year results on Tuesday, August 28, 2018.
