Hello, Andrew.
That's a good deal of it, obviously, yes.
It's also -- when we report originations, those are the commitments as well, so they may not have been fully drawn as well.
That ends up in that balance as well.
That particular loan was just a little bit over $700,000.
Very good.
It was $700,000, that's correct.
I would say they're between $500,000 and $1 million.
It really depends upon the activity that we see on loan payoffs -- how quickly some of the lines are drawn.
I think from an origination standpoint, we were ahead of where we expected to be.
I think as the Security Bank team has been fully integrated and they start to contribute at higher levels throughout the year, that the originations should continue to modestly increase from where we were.
But it really depends upon the level of payoffs that we see here throughout the rest of the year.
It really depends.
I think we have a robust process in place.
We certainly had recognized over the years that we're below some of our peers.
We continue to be -- although when you take into account the credit marks that we have on the portfolio and just the way the portfolio has performed, it's really hard to say exactly where we'll come out.
Each quarter we do an in-depth analysis and make the determination where we believe the provision is appropriate.
Hello, <UNK>.
Most of them we've been able to retain.
I think that there's been very modest runoff.
And then there's just given the general ebbs and flows that you see with business as they either put that cash to work or they have excess cash.
I haven't noticed any material change.
I think that both buyers' and sellers' expectations were impacted earlier in the year, just given some of the volatility that we've seen in the equity markets and maybe a move down in some of the stock prices in the banking industry.
But I wouldn't say there's been any material change.
Sure.
I don't have the LTVs in front of me.
We can get that for you, <UNK>.
As I said, it was very strong debt coverage, which is far more important to us and was one of the key factors that we look at.
And just because of those coverage levels, the loan to values were relatively low.
<UNK>, do you have the number off the top of your head.
We can get that to you, <UNK>.
Thank you, Gail, and thanks again, everyone, for joining us this morning.
If you have any other questions, please feel free to call me or <UNK> and we'd be happy to chat with you.
Have a great day.
