We're not going to comment too much on mix between DIY and commercial but I will just reiterate that commercial is going to be our primary sales driver.
So no question that it's slanted more toward an investment and the focus around our commercial business, while trying to maintain as much DIY as we can.
There is not an update.
The Board is diligently doing what they consider to be one of their primary roles which is the CEO search and it's going on.
And here at Advance, we're driving ahead with the business and there's no question about leadership.
Correct.
Thank you.
<UNK>, we made progress on the cost area for sure.
So if you want to look at the primary area that we've shown traction on, it's cost reduction, part of which was reflected in some of the Q4 results which we weren't happy with.
But we are making progress in our cost structure.
We have instruments in place on margin and we certainly intend to change the comp trajectory and that last part is absolutely job one.
Yes, the weakness in 2015 gives us a little bit more of a target.
That's just the fact of the matter.
So we have a little bit more work to do.
A little bit more wood to chop on it but the same principles remain, meaning it is taking aggressive cost out in the right places, accelerating our comp sales, and expanding our margins.
(multiple speakers) We've got a little bit more to do.
Yes, <UNK>, we will build throughout the course of the year.
With that said, our quarters aren't equal.
So obviously, if you look at a quarter like Q2, that is a critical quarter for us relative to Q4 which is less so.
Yes, you should.
It's part of the cost savings.
Not exactly.
I think, <UNK>, if you look at what we've said before, I think <UNK> said it earlier.
100 basis points of SG&A and roughly in that 50 basis points and then a little bit of leverage is what we said.
But we haven't given a specific on gross margin but we have given a specific on SG&A, which is a 100 basis points range.
Thank you, Cheryl.
Thanks for our audience for participating on our fourth quarter call.
That concludes our call.
Thank you.
