Thanks.
Yes, sure, happy to do that.
So I mentioned the sales headcount was 1,687 people.
The agents within that headcount were 278, so that brings your sales headcount to 1,409 people.
Total employees was 2,430, and that's highlighted on our earnings release as well.
2,430.
In total, yes.
Correct, that was the end of June.
That's right, yes.
Well, <UNK>, yes, we've got a lot of work going on that.
We've also brought in some outside help to get us through it quickly and effectively.
We're targeting one year to have the technology integration completed.
Yes, <UNK>, this is <UNK>.
I think that is the right way to think about it.
We wanted to call out the growth that we would expect to see on that base set of business and then also be able to comment on a range of synergies that we would expect to see when we bring those businesses together, but yes, you could certainly describe that as organic growth higher than that 10% to 12% once you add in those synergies.
Yes.
I mentioned that in the second half of the year, we'd expect roughly $9 million to $9.1 million of amortization in total.
The Command amortization for the second half of the year, you can expect to be around $6.7 million, in that range.
Thanks, <UNK>.
(multiple speakers).
Thanks, <UNK>.
It does potentially change that.
I think that's one of the key issues that we'll be looking at in 2016.
And we would expect that our headcount additions might be a little geared more on the client side.
Over the past couple of years, they've been -- certainly with Echo as a stand-alone business, we've done a lot more investing on the sourcing side of the business to build up our truckload sourcing capability.
So it's a good question and I think that we'll get more specific about that next year, but I do see the potential to do some shifting, or potentially the hiring plans might be slightly lower, given the synergies we'll get on the sourcing side.
Yes, it will stay in that elevated range through the first half of next year.
And then, that would come down relatively significantly.
Yes, there is some portion that's a little bit longer, but as we have mentioned, it was a $10 million amount that's been amortized or expensed over a one-year period.
Thanks, Matt.
Yes, I think we can make that available.
<UNK>, why don't you give the numbers.
The reason we stopped doing that and it's okay that's it's a trigger is that with the mode mix changing, the combination of LTL and Truckload shipment volumes, it's getting more and more to maybe not be a key metric.
There's no reason we can't give it, but we just kind of wanted to be cautious about triggering too much on that as the mode mix continues to shift.
Yes.
And it's always been a little tricky, but it's better than nothing.
We do try to capture the change in revenue per load or revenue per shipment, we've [captured fairly accurately].
Yes, <UNK>, the number is $645,000 on the quarter, which is up 19%.
Well, I think on the enterprise client counts, we've decided that that metric as we've gotten bigger and that's a smaller part of our business, just doesn't really make sense to continue to update and disclose.
We signed I think 10 new clients in the quarter.
So we continue to add clients, high renewal rates, but we decided that that was just kind of getting to the extra information that was necessary to really driving the financial results.
So we have kind of backed off on disclosing that.
I think transactional client were -- there's no reason we can't disclose that and --
Yes, total clients we've worked with during the quarter and now, this includes Command as well, is 24,200.
Thanks, <UNK>.
The cash interest expense, yes, I'd expect somewhere in the neighborhood of $3.3 million to $3.4 million for the second half of the year.
So $200 million to $300 million of expected revenue from acquisitions by 2018 and also $200 million to $300 million of expected additional revenue from synergies through the Command integration in addition to the organic revenue of 10% to 12%.
Yes.
So we haven't really given a percentage there.
As you know, we don't guide to a margin percentage and that operating leverage is really a factor of the leverage we get over those net revenue dollars, so it's little harder for me to pinpoint something there without giving a margin percentage, but we do expect that to continue to accelerate.
Obviously, that synergistic revenue is very accretive revenue for us and we'd expect that to have a nice incremental margin impact.
So we're excited about that.
So hopefully, that's helpful.
It's going to ebb and flow depending on the quarters in the seasons and the timing of when the integration happens and when those revenue synergies come in.
I think a good number to use is kind of high 30s, low 40s as an incremental margin percentage.
Correct.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Well, I will appreciate everybody joining us today.
We feel real good about the business.
We're proud of the execution.
We're excited about the Command deal and we look forward to talking to you all in the coming quarter and on the next call.
So, thanks for joining us.
