Thank you very much.
Hey, <UNK>, it's <UNK>.
Yes, I think last year it was probably closer to $65 million -- $65 million, $68 million, something like that.
I'd consider this year to be more than that just because if you kind of look at the scale of DMS and the size of the business, so -- maybe you could ratio that a little bit by revenue.
I'd kind of think of it that way and I would think of it -- it's a [expletive]shoot on how it lays in.
It will lay in Q3, Q4 but what percentages for what.
It's hard to tell because it's a lot of work on a lot of different programs and a lot of moving parts, so kind of take your guess.
Maybe -- I don't know, maybe a 60/40 split Q3 to Q4, something like that, but it's anyone's guess, <UNK>.
I guess it depends.
It depends on what programs we win and what opportunities we have, and if we have the good fortune to make these types of investments if we can continue to grow earnings.
So it depends.
It's a combination of all kinds of different engineering, process, automation, et cetera, et cetera.
So let me understand the question.
Can you ask the question again about -- are you talking about Q2.
Yes, I understand your question.
I think for the sake of modeling, EMS is going to be a bit softer in Q2, so I wouldn't hold it flat.
I think EMS will be more -- I don't know -- 2.5% range, 2.7%.
Something like that.
And that should adjust your DMS model.
Yes, you as well.
Sure, <UNK>.
It's <UNK> again.
I think I hit on it a little bit this earlier if you're talking about -- if you're talking specific to healthcare.
We have a bullish outlook on it.
But I'd caution you, everybody's -- not everybody -- there's a lot of people racing to that space.
It's a space that's being disrupted in a lot of different ways.
It's being disrupted at a hospital level.
It's being disrupted with data, it's being disrupted from a digitization and a mobility perspective.
It's being disrupted as far as industry consolidation, if you just look at the megamergers that have taken place.
So if we're thoughtful about it, that disruption can be good for us.
And then what I mentioned earlier is, you take all that and add wellness to that, and the lines, I think, over time may get blurred between what's wellness and what's truly healthcare.
If the demarcation line is kind of FDA type of stuff, I don't know that anybody knows exactly where that will end up, but it's a market with a kind of a lot of lather around it right now and disruption, and we're very interested in it and if we got the right solutions, I think it'll be good for us for the next two, three, four years.
Have a great holiday.
Okay.
Thank you very much, operator, and thank you, everyone, for joining us on the call today.
We will be here for the rest of this week.
I will remind you that we do shutter for the holidays here in our corporate offices, and so if you want to talk to us, get in this week.
All right.
Thank you.
Happy Holidays.
