Good morning.
Today we distributed our blended products to about 50 different distributors, and we want to continue to do that.
We have good relationships.
In many of those relationships, they in turn distribute directly to our customers for us.
There are a number of markets where we also have customers that we have historically distributed directly to.
As you look at the infrastructure that the combined Clean Harbors and Safety-Kleen now has, there are several markets where it would be more efficient, and we would be able to expand more, if we serviced a lot of our existing, let's say, Safety-Kleen core environmental customers, which total over 200,000.
As we looked out over the next three years, we'd really like to get to the 80% blended level in our business.
We really want to expand our blended business.
It would probably be broken down into continuation of growth with our existing distribution network, as well as the expansion of our direct sale business.
That's probably the number that you might want to measure us by.
That 80% number is really where we'd like to get in the next three or four years.
I think manufacturing was up; I think chemical was probably the one that got impacted a little bit by the strike in the port.
Manufacturing -- <UNK>, did you want to touch on that.
Oh, absolutely.
Manufacturing is doing well.
Many of our clients, whether you're talking about -- we typically don't talk about specific clients, I'm sorry.
But when you talk about some of the major corporations across America, we have very good relations.
To the extent, certainly, any of the expansions are going on with the lower price of natural gas and a little bit more manufacturing that we're seeing in North America, I think you'll see us grow right with that.
It's not only the industrial, but it's also the waste -- the hazardous waste that they generate regularly in their business.
We're excited about that, and you're seeing some evidence of that the first quarter there.
Thank you.
Okay.
Again, thanks again for joining us today.
We really appreciate your questions and comments.
We're going to be participating in several conferences and events in the next month here in Boston, as well as in Las Vegas in conjunction with the Waste Expo.
We hope to see many of you at those events.
Thanks very much.
