Well certainly the core of this Company and its past has been promotions.
We have driven traffic and it's still proven today to drive traffic through promotional -- through promotions and promotional pricing.
As we continue to get away from some of the negative impacts, we certainly hope that changes over time.
But we are focused on and we're constantly looking at our marketing message.
But in the past 18 months, given the pressure that has been put on our brand and our reputation, we've had to make sure that the customer has a reason to come into or look at our stores.
It's been pricing.
Certainly, we hope to get away from that.
<UNK>'s here.
He's got -- he can give you just some brief color on how we're thinking about that.
Yes, is the -- is a quick answer to that.
But we're going to be methodical about it.
You're not going to see us blitz the market with it.
Again, it goes back to, we've got to earn that respect to go along with the words that were saying.
So you're not going to see it change overnight.
You're going to see it evolve.
Remind me of which charges your referring to, just to be sure --
Yes.
So at the end of the day, we have highlighted those items as being tax-deductible.
Yes.
We've provided for you a couple numbers that we did when we talked about in my remarks, excluding the cost of consolidation of certain laminate products, that was about $1.6 million.
Then -- that's highlighted in the Q.
Then the indoor air quality testing program was a little south of $3 million.
I think roughly $2.9 million, in the quarter.
Those are the numbers that we're referring to that we are adding back, if you will, to get to this -- the $34.5 million gross margin that I referenced in my remarks.
I was going to ask you, what the second part of your question.
I apologize.
We have not added those back.
We believe that our ability to source product from anywhere in the world will ultimately help the Company obtain a gross margin that we're looking for.
So we expect to use that as a competitive advantage in being able to buy from where we want in the future.
They are unrelated.
We are required to report that only when it's considered probable that we would receive those insurance proceeds.
So it's unrelated to any of the other legal issues that are out there with the insurance carriers.
Thank you.
Yes.
Thank you all for joining us.
Thank all the Lumber Liquidators' team for your hard work.
As an aside, in regards to my health, I'm feeling great.
My treatment plan is on track.
I remain actively involved in the business and remain confident in our ability of our management team to drive Lumber Liquidators back to growth and profitability.
Thanks again for joining us this morning.
