Yes, I'll start off, <UNK>, and then <UNK> can add on.
I would say our main focus is on arresting the decline.
Obviously growth is the ultimate goal.
But coming off the year we just had in both the assisted and the DIY channel, our main kind of step one, if you will, is arresting the decline.
Obviously we're hoping for growth, but not necessarily targeting it at this point.
So that's -- and what was your second question, <UNK>.
Yes, I think -- go ahead, Mike.
Sorry.
Yes, with regard to the first half, second half, I don't think we're in a position yet to comment on the split or where we would -- where that will land.
I think <UNK> laid it out well, that the goal here, we can't afford to have another year where we're down almost 1 million clients.
So job one is to arrest the decline, and that's where our focus is.
I think sometimes that's an artificial construct.
But clearly, we have to be focused on the client number.
So I'm not going to comment more specifically than that, but just that our primary focus is to arrest the client decline.
I'm not sure I heard the second -- did you hear the second part.
Just partners for offering (multiple speakers)
Okay, so now I understand.
So obviously with the expansion in RALs that were offered last tax season, our estimates are that there are over 1 million of them offered, primarily through the independent channels.
So we have certainly taken a look at that.
We are continuing to look at that.
Whether we will have one or not is certainly something that we're not ready to comment on this year.
We would be in a position where we would partner on this.
I'm not going to say what we've done with regard to any discussions with partners.
But as I've said, in terms of having an aggressive tax season, in our mind, everything is on the table, and at the appropriate time we'll reveal what our plans are.
Yes, as I said on the Q4 call, we were surprised that the impact was not growing in tax season 2016.
Every indicator was that it would be, but it didn't happen.
The number of people in exchanges, again this year, has gone up.
The IRS now has all the 1095 forms that everyone had to file last year.
So everything is set up for an increase in terms of the impact on the tax season.
But we'll just have to wait and see.
I still believe that over time, this will be a net benefit to a Company like H&R Block.
But hard to say what it will be in 2017, given that we were surprised.
But all the indicators would show that the impact will be higher in 2017.
Thanks, <UNK>.
All right, thanks, Marianna, and thanks, everyone, for joining us on today's call.
Hope you have a great day.
Thank you.
