60% plus.
What was it in the quarter if you ex out incentive comp.
Okay.
And then lastly, can you just talk about the trucking and mix component of yield.
What was the primary driver behind it being down.
And then how should we think about that contribution going forward.
Got it.
So it's more of a one-off thing.
There will be some, but we don't expect it to the same extent.
And we see -- like we said on the prepared remarks here, improving conditions in a lot of segments really.
So that revenue will come at a very high incremental margin.
Look at these numbers.
Yes, I know -- or I mean, the update is we're very close with our top candidate, and I will expect an announcement fairly shortly, if everything else checks out here.
So it looks very good.
Well, yes.
Obviously, there are some orders in place, and there's always some level of activity that we see.
And in talking to our large customers, they indicate that the second half here is going to be very strong and that the fourth quarter is going to be very, very strong.
But seeing is believing, so we have -- until we have the orders in hand, we don't bank on the revenues.
But this is one of those things that they will have to do these turnarounds at some point.
And it's more a question of which quarter will it fall in.
I don't think much of a change, really.
I mean, we've consistently, over the last several years, really been pricing above our competition.
And we continue to be on average, say, 15%, 20% higher in our markets, in certain markets even more than that.
But we don't see that we're losing much business due to that.
We differentiate our products, as you know, and we sell value.
And I think we do it very well.
So I can't say that we've experienced any change this quarter over any other.
No, no.
There's plenty of boxes around, much, much more than we would need.
So just a couple quick follow-ups on the containment side of the business.
So just generally speaking, do you have pretty consistent lead times.
Or do they vary from project to project.
I'd say they can vary.
Certain projects are planned in -- with some advanced notice or time, but other projects is next day.
It all depends, really.
Is there like a rough average of the lead time before you undertake a project that you could point to.
Or is that.
.
No, I don't.
Right.
And in terms of turnaround and the downstream kind of maintenance activity, when you look at that, what's the longest amount of time most of these businesses could put off at turnaround.
And kind of what inning are we in right now versus that amount of time.
Because we've been hearing this thesis kind of play out for the past roughly a year, 1.5 years.
And apparently, there is a specific amount of time that they can't put off anymore, but I think a lot of us are kind of wondering when that will pick up.
It seems like you think it's going to happen in the fourth quarter.
Well, yes.
I mean, based on our conversations with the customers, it's that -- they indicate that it's going to happen.
I mean, the -- your first question is really a question you have to post to them, how long they can keep going.
This is like the third cycle I'm through when this is happening.
And 2 years is certainly not, based on my experience, [I'm neutral].
And having said that, what inning are we in.
I don't know.
I think we're past the ninth inning.
Exactly, exactly.
Okay, that's helpful.
And then, just in terms of what you're seeing from your competition in that market, particularly some of these smaller companies, with some of the declines that we've experienced, are you seeing some of these smaller businesses exit the market.
Or is the market pretty healthy and everybody hanging in there.
If we talk about the upstream markets or.
.
Yes, the upstream side of the.
.
Yes, on the upstream side, I think there's a lot of companies that have left the market and -- for financial reasons or -- I mean, so it's -- that market, we still see there's obviously a lot of competition there.
But pricing has stabilized, and activity levels are up.
So we're doing quite okay.
In <UNK>ellus, we're, I think, 50, 60 units off from our all-time high on units on rent.
And in Midland now, we're up 50% in units on rent from the bottom there last year.
So we're doing quite well.
Right.
That's very helpful.
And then just last question.
If you could, I think we've done this analysis before, but just on average, what's the average acquisition cost of a unit on the containment side.
And how long does it typically take you to break even.
Right.
But the band of what these units could cost, they can go up from like maybe $1,000 to like $35,000.
Is that the kind of the band they're in.
Yes.
So your biggest tanks would probably be right in the $30,000 kind of range.
Okay, thank you very much.
Thank you, everyone, for participating on our second quarter call here.
I think we are very well positioned now to continue to grow the business as we did here in Q2, and we look forward to speaking with you after our Q3 results.
Thank you.
