Hi <UNK>.
Right, <UNK>, no.
What I said in the past is I think it's not a fair comparison to put us against some of our generator peers, because they don't have the scale of our retail platform and our retail business.
I think on a generation -- our generational platform I will put it vis-a-vis anybody in our space but you need to take into consideration we have a retail platform that I don't believe anybody else on our sector has.
What we have done today, and what I tried to articulate today, is really to give you a comprehensive look at the entire cost structure that we have, one that you can actually reconciled with our financials and that you can hold us accountable going forward.
We have identified and either executed or in execution close to $400 million of cost reductions that I feel we all feel very comfortable that are very achievable, and we are making significant progress.
I think there are more opportunities as we integrate some of the business, specifically residential solar, into the platform, but I expect that we will be looking at other areas.
We now have a comprehensive continuous improvement program that over the years have been very effective under the fornrg umbrella, and we are extending that to the entire organization, so we are reinvigorating that initiative.
It is now company wide, and I expect we will come with additional savings under that framework going forward.
And as we start identifying them, I will provide that additional detail, but just -- I'm excited about where we are in terms of our cost reduction program.
We have made significant progress, and I think we run a -- we're going to be running very efficient organization here.
That is my goal, and again I think when it comes to comparisons you need to make sure that you compare apples to apples.
No.
I think it would be in 2016.
We are in the process right now.
I announced today the reintegration of residential solar.
We have identified as I said of significant cost savings I think fully integrates with retail.
I am sure there will be more.
We're looking across other areas in the organization so this is an area of focus and to be candid it is a reflection and it has to be -- it is an imperative in this commodity cycle.
So we are looking across not just overhead but also operations O& M, and that is an area of focus as we are seeing changes in dispatch profiles and changes in terms of how our units get compensated specifically moving from energy driven margins to capacity driven margin, so everything is on the table, and I think as I said it is an imperative in this current commodity market environment.
I think that's a TBD.
Right now the partners we are focused in the three northeast markets.
I can't comment right now in Texas but I think it's a TBD.
I think what I will say is that's where we are focusing right now, and our partners will support us on those three markets.
Thank you.
Good morning, <UNK>
<UNK>, it is <UNK>.
What I'll tell you was no it doesn't include all of it.
The order of magnitude the little less than half.
There is maybe an incremental opportunity to do so, but that number provides us the amount of capital we thought was prudent right now given the opportunities we see on the deleveraging front, but it's a little less than half of the total amount of capacity, so think about maybe 1500 megawatts a year through the 2016-2017, 2017-2018, 2018-2019 timeframe.
I can't really comment too much on California.
I think that's a little bit more complex, but the answer on the PJM East front is yes.
Added complexity there is obviously a lot of those assets are in the GenOn complex, but it certainly not impossible where that's concerned.
I think going back to Midwest Gen, certainly that is an opportunity that we'd revisit post the completion of the next round of auctions there in PJM.
