Two things on the Netherlands, Bill, that are probably worth noting.
We had a really strong Q2.
It was a very mild spring on the continent.
And we believe a lot of that repair work may have been pushed from Q3 into Q2.
And the other thing that we're doing is obviously with the heavy acquisitions we're doing from three-step to two-step, there's a lot of revenue moving as we acquire new businesses we're cannibalizing from other locations.
So it may be shifting from an older location that was comping to a newer location that we didn't get the benefit of the organic growth.
So we do think that's going to start to level out again and we.
ll be back to where we think we should be, which is mid single-digits of organic growth.
Most of it related to FX items.
Yes, mostly noncash items, Bill.
Again nothing material.
No, the FX goes along with where the currencies are swinging and the like.
So we would never kind of plan on that being a recurring item.
Hi, <UNK>.
In the US, we get quarterly updates, but it's really moving.
But it's in that 36% to 37% range.
And in the UK, we're closer to 9% plus.
The last figure we got from Slager at the time.
Up from 7%, we got in the business, <UNK>, in 2012.
We do play in that performance side of the business, <UNK>.
That is one of the segments we are in.
We certainly would look at anything that we could obviously lever.
They do have -- both of those companies have a strong e-commerce presence, which is attractive to us.
But at this point, we're just looking at all of the opportunities.
And since they are in that segment, we certainly would be interested in that business.
The 6.2% comp.
We've been told the market is growing circa GDP, so 2%-ish.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Good morning.
Again, if FX rates stay where they are today, again, probably a little bit less than $0.005.
On the scrap side, figure $0.02 relative to last year.
I mean we continue to chunk down.
And the scrap prices really didn't start to come in meaningfully until early Q1 of this year.
So we won't get the real benefit.
You should assume for the year that we'll be at the 34.75%.
That's our best estimate at this point in time.
Sure.
<UNK>, on State Farm, the bumpers, the ones that they are writing in the aftermarket were up 16.6% year-over-year, so really impressive growth.
We now have 467 certified parts available just in the bumper line, so very pleased with that.
We talk to State Farm all the time, nothing more than that.
On Australia, we keep moving forward with the partnership there.
And it's a slow, steady race, but growing our top-line very nicely and expect to do a little bit more here in the coming quarters in terms of potential acquisitions and more product entry.
Thanks.
It's a competitive marketplace.
We're now in a position to really control that last mile of distribution.
So we do still have some wholesale customers as well.
So we're kind of playing in both of the markets.
The car park is growing there.
And it presents a great opportunity.
We think that our small entry into France, we have three locations in France, provides another opportunity to keep growing the business.
So we think it's a great opportunity to really grow the business in all segments of the markets we operate, the Benelux, as well as the France markets as well.
We certainly believe that now that we're pretty much where we need to be in terms of the three-step to two-step, we're in a great position because our inventory is strong.
We can leverage not only our existing inventory in the Netherlands, but we have backup in the UK as well.
So we think we're in a great position.
Remember the Coast business and our accessory business really isn't tied to collisions.
It's more tied to the upgrading of the vehicle or accessorizing of the vehicle.
So it's really tied to the SAAR rate.
As new car sales and new RV sales continue, people are more likely to accessorize their vehicle at time of purchase.
So we think we're in a great position on all side of the accessory business because of that strong SAAR rate.
People are going to do this, most likely upgrade their vehicle at the time of purchase.
The other thing that's attractive about that is the dealerships often finance those type of upgrades.
So they roll right into the note.
So we're pretty optimistic.
As long as the SAAR rate stays strong, we've got a nice tailwind there.
Thanks, Devon.
Thank you, everyone, for your time this morning.
And we look forward to speaking with you in February when we report our fourth quarter and full year 2015 results.
Have a great day.
