I think -- I mentioned it in the script.
We are seeing strong rental reservations from our seasonal customers as you might imagine, the guys that are ramping up for the holiday, the parcel-type companies, for November and December.
So as we get into that season, the units are available, we would expect to have those units rented out to those folks.
So I would tell you what we're seeing is good, strong reservation activity from those customers.
If anything, it might have been -- the only thing maybe different from last year, some of it might be a little bit later than we saw last year but -- which last year they picked them up sooner in the quarter, but we're looking at November and December.
Some of it is seasonal.
Like this time of year you got the parcel company that's going to pick up more of the straight trucks than the tractors but it could be various things.
I think what we're doing is we're kind of viewing it as an opportunity to really de-fleet and get ourselves prepared for the first quarter.
So we're in the process of doing that with the rental lease program and then also with some of the things that we're doing around out servicing vehicles and putting them at the used truck lots.
Good morning.
Yes, I do.
I think we've said high single-digit generally on the top line and I would expect to get some leverage and get double-digit growth on the bottom line.
Obviously, if you've got some headwind on the gains line, that's going to put some pressure, maybe bring it down, maybe bring it down to the low end of the double digit, maybe even high single digit, but I would expect over the cycle clearly to have double-digit earnings growth along with that high single-digit top line growth.
I think there's -- I'll let <UNK> kind of elaborate on that a little bit but I think clearly on the -- wherever there's trucks needed, we can play a role on the FMS side and with all the different product offerings that we have which eCommerce, certainly all the deliveries to homes is a big part of that.
On the logistics side, I think there's a lot of stuff.
If you think about the offerings that we have running distribution centers, our ability to manage orders from customers and really what is called the omni-channel, our ability to actually execute that for customers that need it, we've got great expertise and capabilities there, but I'll let <UNK> elaborate a little more on that.
I would just add, we do that today for many of our customers across multiple verticals.
We have the capability to not only deliver into retail DCs but into store fronts through (inaudible) networks and last mile as well as to consumers' homes.
So, I think we've got a really good model right now for our key customers and we're going to continue to focus on additional capabilities to expand that.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Hello.
Well, the -- what I would tell you is the number over the last several years has actually grown as we've improved productivity.
You're getting more trucks per technician on our base fleet.
On the on-demand stuff, you're right.
It's a little trickier, but you have a general idea of where the trucks are.
And you also -- the amount of work that a technician does in an on-demand truck is typically a lot -- significantly less.
So that's where you're able to leverage some of the capabilities.
When we get a large on-demand customer though, we have an idea -- we'll have a contract and we'll know where the vehicles reside and when we need to staff up, then we staff up and we can adjust that as needed.
<UNK>, do you want to add anything to that.
Yes, I would just add that as we're viewing it, as we bring a technician on, if the on-demand revenue, if the truck doesn't come in, we're looking at the technician running more road calls, which our customers like versus using a third party.
We're looking at rather than sending work down the road to a vendor keeping it in-house.
We're looking at increasing our PM currency even more.
We're looking at lowering overtime.
So the point, is you can bring the technician on.
There's a lot of work to be done, which then you can free that up if the on-demand truck comes in.
You have other ways of flexing.
Right.
To be able to utilize the tech.
Yes, I think obviously this quarter has taught us a lesson, so we're obviously looking at the modeling, but I don't see an issue with where we're going of maintaining the staffing and the work is there to flex as more on-demand comes in.
So we see real opportunity to continue growing this product line.
Thank you.
Okay.
Is Nicole on.
Okay.
Well, sorry about that, Nicole.
Maybe we'll pick up your question later.
Well, listen, I think that concludes the call.
We're about 15 minutes past the top of the hour.
I wanted to make sure we got everybody's call -- everybody's question in considering the type of quarter that we had.
So look forward to our call again in a few months as we discuss 2016.
Anyway, have a safe day and we'll see you on the road.
