Well, we are certainly mindful of all of our options here.
And we will continue to look at those.
The direction you are going is not our plan right now.
So we think we've got a plan to continue to create academic and economic value at DeVry University, in particular, and all our institutions for that matter.
At the same time, there is nothing that is sacrosanct here and we look at all the options.
So that's something that we continue to get guidance from from our board, as well.
And so we will keep you posted.
Yes, that is something.
A lot of those opportunities can come across the desk.
We also see opportunities to help out.
We've seen some other institutions that have failed, or closed, or shut down.
And many of those transfer students have come over to DeVry University or to Carrington College.
That's actually been an opportunity.
The people who are in charge of looking at those things, public policy people, or their consultants know us and we have a good reputation so we are often on the list on the institutions that they call to see if we can help out, so that's there.
From an acquisition perspective, I would just reiterate what I said before, which is, our priority is really in professional and international education and that's where you've seen us allocating capital, such as the acquisition that we made of Grupo Ibemec in December.
Sure.
And there's two pieces of your question just to unpack that, because you said graduates.
The clerkships is the third and fourth year of medical school, or the last three semesters of Vet school.
So that's while they are still a student.
Those are what we call clerkships.
Back in the old days they used to call them internships.
They call them clerkships.
And then you mentioned graduates.
That's when they graduate and then they go on for -- in the medical world, go on for residency.
In the veterinary world they generally go straight into practice, there are some residencies.
So in each case, we're feeling pretty good about how our students and our graduates are doing, in those areas.
The article that you talked about, I'm not sure I saw that one, but I know the issue.
People have asked about providing resources, -- I can't understand why there's an issue.
It seems to make perfect sense that if we are sending our students to a teaching hospital, that we would partner with that hospital to provide the resources to teach the students.
And we also provide resources, in some cases, to help build simulation centers or do other things that help that hospital serve it's community.
That's a good thing.
So those hospitals that we've worked, some of whom we've worked with for decades actually, really view us very positively as a partner in medical education.
And of course once our students complete a clerkship in the third or fourth year with a teaching hospital, oftentimes they will put that hospital on their list for the residency match, or that hospital may put them on.
And that's what the whole match is about.
So once they get to know each other, either it works out really well for meeting their workforce needs and we become a workforce solutions provider.
And so in March we saw the residency match.
The real March madness, as opposed to the basketball.
This is one that really counts, making sure we have the doctors we need.
And we saw our two US serving medical schools put more than 1,000 new residents into the match.
And I think our two together are probably the single largest provider of new positions to the US residency system.
So, we feel pretty good about what DeVry Medical International is doing, and think it will continue to serve those students and that societal need for the future.
Good, I tried to parse the two pieces out there for you.
Sure, good question.
In this start, it was only post-licensure.
So there were no campus starts.
Just from an overall enrollment perspective, we have campus starts in the month of May, September, and January and then we have post-licensure starts every six weeks.
So, we would have July, September, November, January, March, and May.
So the 12% is a good apples to apples number.
Yes.
It's a little bit more competitive there.
Overall demand is not a strong as it was, just given the economy, the political situation, and so forth.
And so we are focused as <UNK> said in the long-term, on preserving and enhancing our share and our stature there.
One interesting fact about the FIES and it's FIES for those following along with the Portuguese acronym for the student loan system there, is -- for those who have been following we had an investor day last fall and Carlos Filgueiras, who we call Degas, he is the President of DeVry Brazil.
He said that he expected that while the government was going to cut the number of FIES contracts in half, and people had heard that and got a little bit concerned.
At the same time the government was going to prioritize those toward high-quality institutions and we've got strong academic outcomes and I mentioned some of those.
And on the Northeast where we are strong and in healthcare and engineering, where we are strong.
And as a result, we expected to double our share of contracts and double the share of half the number of contracts resulting in a neutral impact on the number of FIES contracts and that's just what we saw.
So I'm feeling really good about the team that we have in DeVry Brazil.
They really have their finger on the pulse and doing what needs to be done to enhance educational opportunities down there in Brazil.
Thank you
