That's a good question and I have the same answer as before.
We're keeping a close eye on it and we'll decide if that's something we need to go after.
As of this moment we're not heading down the peer-to-peer path.
If you really think about the way CarMax works, the fact that we make a cash offer on every car, is enabling a lot of peer-to-peer transactions and some of those are coming through us that would have otherwise gone peer to peer.
A customer who normally would have put their car online before or put up in their yard and put a for sale sign on it, now a lot of those customers are bringing their cars directly to us and selling it to us.
I may not be exactly the way you're thinking of it but I think we're getting plenty of customers who would have gone through the peer-to-peer channel and are deciding to sell their car directly to CarMax.
We're evaluating all different options and we're open to any way that makes our business better and delivers a better return for our shareholders.
On the first question, that number's been around 30% for quite a long time now.
But that's a big number.
We sold 600,000 cars last year which means we transferred roughly 200,000 cars at the customer's request to the store nearest them and then sold the car.
We're transferring as many cars or more than anybody else at the customer's request.
When they see a great presentation of that car through our website, with 40 high-definition pictures and zoom capability, I think we'll continue to make progress there.
But the number's been relatively flat.
But again, it's a very big number.
In terms of our regional differences, we never comment on regional differences.
The only thing I'd tell you is I continue to be very proud of our CarMax team.
Whenever we have a disaster in any area that involves large-scale loss of product, we're able to be there for the consumer when they are ready to buy something else.
And we also are a place where people can get rid of their cars.
If a car has flood damage or hail damage, we still make an offer on the car and we turn around and wholesale that car.
We won't retail one of those cars but we still are there for the consumer when they need us in markets that have some trouble.
But I can't really comment on any differences in performance.
Okay.
Being there's no further questions, I want to thank everybody for your interest in CarMax and for joining us on the call today.
And I especially want to thank our over 22,000 CarMax associates nationwide for all you do every day to make CarMax such a success.
And we'll talk to you guys next quarter.
Thank you.
