It was definitely stronger in cooling, consistent with the markets.
I don't know if --
Yes, I don't know if we're going to break it down quite into that detail for you.
As <UNK> said, it was stronger in cooling than it was in heating.
We referred to the weaker March that did affect the heating side of things, and as I am sure you have been hearing on a lot of different calls, the strong commercial construction market has a positive impact on the cooling side.
Yes, I will put it just broadly that there was growth in cooling.
There was contraction in heating and that has a lot to do with the weather.
Year over year, you had still a cold winter in Q1 of last year compared to this year.
As I tried to explain when Shannon was asking the question, they have moved, but that was in expectation, aligned with our expectation.
Basically when we started the year and you looked at the project timing and what we were expecting from customers at that time, it should have -- they should have been placed earlier.
But when we looked at those and looked at the dynamics, we adjusted our expectations around when those projects would land, so we always had them in our guidance towards the back half of the year.
Being concerned around some of the macros and not sure how that was going to work out, but seeing somehow these -- our international orders, we did see them slide as anticipated.
So I'm not really -- at this point, I'm not seeing -- we are not seeing any orders canceled, but we are not seeing -- we are still seeing them and they're very active, but it's our -- the decision-making process is taking (multiple speakers)
And I would probably just point out that that's really we're talking about one product line that is, I would say, a smaller portion of detection and measurement.
I would say that the 75%-plus of detection and measurement, you are not seeing any of those types of customer behaviors, and the interesting thing is, and some of this could be market, some of this could be some of our growth initiatives, but there is some healthy front logs that we are seeing across our detection and measurement businesses.
I think we're optimistic on that business.
I think there is a lot of activity.
We talked about the new software solution, the Link, which is now in a production environment.
We have taken several more orders there.
I would say the tactical results from the highway bill, a lot of the projects are starting to get rolling and so forth.
I would anticipate you'd probably see a lot more RFPs and hard action probably towards the latter half of 2016, early part of 2017.
But we are seeing activity levels up.
But I don't think that is something that turns on every night.
The municipalities, they will determine which projects.
They will go through the application process and -- but in general, that is a very good result for the whole industry.
And I think the trade industry there, it is called APTA, they are very pleased with that and I think that's going to be good for all the participants in that market.
Thanks, Crystal, and thanks all of you for joining the call.
We look forward to updating you on our new accomplishments and initiatives to drive value creation as we progress throughout the year.
Thanks much.
