<UNK>, I didn't get your full question but I think it was around gross margin where we are.
Here's what I'd say about our gross margin.
We've made a lot of progress, as we've said, over the last few years.
We've gone from the low 40%s to mid-40%s.
We believe that's where we are today.
Now, there's a lot of things that go into our gross margin.
We have new deals that are going to be lower than corporate average in the early stages where we're putting out Photonics and Commons and that's a thing.
We have -- as we move through time, and these deals become more mature in their rollouts and we're adding capacity, that tends to improve our margins.
If we're attacking particularly internationally where we have to take incumbency from someone, that's going to cost us something.
So there's a lot of things that impact our margin.
I'm very pleased that if you go back over the past six years, we have grown.
We have increased our market share and we have improved our gross margin.
I think that's a heck of a performance and as we move forward in time, there are going to be fluctuations in our gross margin.
I don't think we can get, in the near-term, above that mid-40%s range.
But hopefully, as we move through time, as software becomes more important, as Packet becomes more important, then I think we will be able to get above that mid-40%s.
In fact, when we said we're going to get to 15% operating margin, as we've said, we have to improve from the mid-40%s by a little bit in order to get to that 15%, we believe.
Yes, <UNK>.
That's right.
That's a good interpretation; in India, we've been direct.
Pretty much, we've got some local partners there.
But basically, we are direct in India.
And the vast, vast majority of the business that we see there is us engaging directly with carriers and other customers, their government, particularly as well.
In our Telstra engagement is with exclusively with Ericsson and we partnered over the last couple of years into the Telstra network and that is purely with Ericsson.
I mean you've seen that in a number of submarine engagements, <UNK>, where we're actually deploying Blue Planet to manage both our equipment and other folks.
<UNK>, do you want to --
I would say, overall, I think we're in a reasonable place from a supply-chain point of view around components that -- we're pretty vertically integrated so a note of caution.
We're not maybe the best barometer overall of this but I would say that we're not, apart from one or two exceptions, which normal sort of ebbs and flows of things, we're in pretty good shape for going in through Q2 and into Q3.
There are so many things that affect the component vendors, it's hard -- I would say that it's -- I'd caution you about trying to read through on us their results.
China is a big deal for those guys and the ebbs and flows in China are going to impact their results and not have any impact on us because currently, we don't sell in China.
No.
I think Verizon is going pretty much as per plan.
We're executing well on it.
I think, generally, I would say the financial community have a view of it being bigger earlier than we have.
And I think that's sort of -- that's playing out.
Listen, it's a very big deal across multiple years.
And we're just beginning that ramp.
It's a nice piece of business for us over many, many years.
Thank you.
We appreciate everybody's attention today.
We look forward to catching up with everyone over the next days and weeks.
Thanks, everyone.
