So in terms of materials processing, as I mentioned already in the prepared remarks, we saw a lot of activity across a lot of applications.
In general, this is new capabilities that are being delivered into the market.
And I would say some of it is also due to renewed focus on the part of our new team members in Europe.
If you look at the traditional applications, the bread-and-butter applications, they are doing okay.
It is a lot of these advanced applications that are really driving the business, where the value add for the laser tool is quite high.
Thanks, <UNK>.
<UNK>, thanks for your question.
No change.
We did announce $30 million of synergies on the November 9 call, post the transaction.
We announced a number of actions that represented about 80% of that $30 million number, in terms of skewing between the restructuring costs or the costs associated with obtaining those synergies.
As you said and I will echo again, they are front-loaded, with synergies coming later on.
So no change in that overall perspective.
Thank you.
We have seen some positive trends in all three markets, but for different sub-markets.
In China, there has obviously been a lot of investment around the EMS supply chain, whether it is for advanced products like ELA, or some of these ultra-fast products, to cutting and marking lasers.
So a lot of activity in China for the EMS.
In Europe, we've seen some good work around component technologies that feed the materials processing market.
And in the US, it has been a combination of automotive and medical device manufacturing.
So while collectively, there has been a lot of positive movement, it is geographically specific in terms of activities.
I'm sorry, <UNK>.
We actually have a pretty substantial business where we sell laser components to other companies that manufacture either lasers or systems.
And these can be diodes, fibers, connectors, other things.
That business has actually been quite strong in Europe.
The majority of them are exported, and probably much of is going to China.
Sure.
<UNK>, if you recall, again, I think was last quarter or the quarter before, we talked about the fact that, with some very nominal investments, particularly around optics fabrication, that we could increase output from -- the customer here is an important one to us in the industry.
So we've made that accommodation.
Yes.
Thank you, Emily.
I want to thank everyone for their participation today.
Obviously we are very excited about the results, more excited about the future.
We look forward to talking to you in a few months.
