Thanks, <UNK>.
Yes, so on TLLP, two key points.
One is the organic growth opportunities.
We're very focused on driving organic growth in the business.
We've mentioned that it's been a little bit slower than we expected.
We have -- we actually have a reasonably good portfolio of ideas that we're looking at right now and we are encouraged by those.
So we will talk more about those as they develop in that but that organic growth is a key part of Tesoro Logistics growth.
It's actually our preferred way to grow the Company.
The second is around acquisitions and the market for acquisitions is probably hasn't changed a lot of what we've seen over time.
So the -- there's a number of things that we're looking at that we're encouraged by so the -- both the combination of the organic growth and the acquisitions look very encouraging to us.
Was that a question or a statement.
I'm sorry.
Okay.
The types of acquisitions that we've talked about today, and I mentioned in my comments we see opportunities in the midstream space and some other smaller type opportunities.
And we think that we have the appropriate cash generation to allow us to do both.
Obviously, if new opportunities come up, we continue to rebalance those and do which ones create the most value for shareholders but I think we're well-positioned right now, when you look at where we are with cash today, what we said about drops, and how we -- what we told you about how we expect to operate in the second half that we've got plenty of flexibility, <UNK>.
Hi, Faisal.
Yes, <UNK>, it's <UNK>.
No, you're right; that's an excellent point.
If you look at -- although, a lot of the growth within our Logistics business has come from organic growth and acquisition.
We have done, on a relative basis, a pretty substantial amount of drops in the last several years and I think that also goes back to the question asked earlier about <UNK>.
But you're right.
If you want to go back and look at our business on a non-drop basis to look over time, we've said about half of the earnings or half of the revenues from TLLP, maybe a little bit north of that come from Tesoro.
And so if you want to go back and look at it on a consistent basis, you would need to do that.
<UNK>, it goes back to some of the earlier questions about the overall dynamics of additional pipeline capacity coming on in the -- I mean, one of the pipelines, the DAPL pipeline was well-established and was always going to come on.
The other pipeline maybe was somewhat questionable.
So we don't think it has a substantial impact on what happens up in North Dakota, that volumes that will move off of the DAPL pipeline into the Gulf coast were going to be there and then what's important for us is that because of the way that we collect and move barrels up there we feel we are well-positioned to be able to meet our demand for crude oil to take it to the West Coast.
I don't know that much about Burnaby, to be quite honest with you so, we look at everything.
Like we've always said, we feel like we understand our geographic area reasonably well and we know where there's opportunities that would fit into us.
Right now, it's actually very quiet so we would just look at opportunities as they became available.
If you're talking about our guidance for the third quarter, it's a very good indicator of what we expect to happen for Q3.
Yes, thanks for the clarification.
The point that I made regarding what's happening in 2016 relative to what we stated at our Analyst Meeting, part of what we said there was when we looked at how the system ran in 2015, primarily impacted by the work stoppage in that we experienced, the recapture that -- in 2016, was worth that $500 million to $600 million and the $100 million that we reduced that by is a reflection of what happened in the second quarter.
Yes.
We'll capture a lot of that.
I would suspect that, by the end of the year, we will have captured all of it.
Thank you.
That's all right.
All right.
Thanks <UNK>.
Hey <UNK>.
As we said before, as we look over the next several years at potential marketing acquisitions, they would need to come from lower-cost sources of capital, as we've talked before.
So as we sit here now and look today, it wouldn't -- not be our priority to use the types of cash that we talked about on call today to do any material marketing acquisition.
The smaller ones potentially but I would not think about marketing acquisitions as a large use of the type of cash flows that we generate from the current portfolio.
Yes, I would just add to <UNK>'s comments, as we look forward, we are absolutely committed to taking a portion of our free cash flow and most of it goes back into the big refining projects that we're working on right now.
And so we are, one, those -- the nature of those projects are very, very valuable to the Company.
And so as we go back in, for example, the Los Angeles Integration Compliance Project, that project, I think we said is somewhere around the $450 million capital spend amount and generates over $100 million of EBITDA.
And more importantly, provides other benefits like the reduction in CO2 and things like that.
That it is a very impactful use of capital.
And so we are committed to take a portion of our free cash flow, reinvest it into business into very high returns, value-adding projects and then have that rest of that free cash flow available to do as we've done in the past and make it available to return to shareholders.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Good talking to you.
