You're welcome.
We don't break out the bookings and backlog on organic and acquired basis.
Couple of reasons for that.
One is as I said the lines are blending quickly as we see more and more what I would call combined opportunities to bring the technology package to bare.
Second is that as <UNK> said, I think what the important thing was from our perspective is the bookings performance solid and the answer is a resounding yes.
We've been extremely pleased both for the two-month period that we owned them last quarter and for the first three months that we owned them in Q1.
So they've actually come in line with organic Mercury and that's really what we want to see and that was pretty amply illustrated by the 1.1 book-to-bill for the quarter on a combined basis.
Bottom line is we're very happy with the way they've come around.
So, as I said previously, <UNK>, when you look at the revised guidance on a pro forma basis assuming that the acquired business did approximately $100 million of revenue in fiscal 2016 meaning we had owned it for the full year, that would translate into a pro forma growth rate of between 5% to 8% year-over-year on a combined basis.
We expect both the organic business and the acquired business to grow within those growth ranges.
For the acquired business, that would result in increasing growth versus where they were last -- the year before we owned them.
From a Patriot perspective, we did receive a large order for Patriot during Q1.
And we have increased our revenue forecasts for the Patriot program versus where we were last quarter.
Paveway is an existing program for them.
They received a large booking.
We received a large booking during the quarter as well as a long-term supply agreement with Raytheon that we're very pleased about.
I'm not going to comment specifically, about the content per program or per missile.
But we are providing some innovative technology across several of the programs that I previously discussed.
Well, thanks very much, Andrea and thanks everyone for listening.
Again we hope to see you at our investor day in New York City on November 8, 2016.
That concludes the call.
Thank you.
