Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us.
If you have not received a copy of the earnings press release that was issued this morning, you can find it in the Investor Info section of the Gibraltar website: gibraltar1.com.
During the prepared remarks today, management will be referring to presentation slides that summarize the Company's first-quarter performance.
These slides also are posted to the Company's website.
Please turn to slide 2 in the presentation.
The Company's earnings press release and slide presentation contain forward-looking statements about future financial results.
The Company's actual results may differ materially from the anticipated events, performance, or results expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Gibraltar advises you to read the risk factors detailed in its SEC filings, which can also be accessed through the Company's website.
Additionally, Gibraltar's earnings press release and remarks this morning contain adjusted financial measures.
Reconciliation of GAAP to adjusted financial measures have been appended to the earnings release and slides.
On our call this morning are Gibraltar's Chief Executive Officer <UNK> <UNK> and Chief Financial Officer <UNK> <UNK>.
At this point, I will turn the call over to <UNK> and please turn to slide 3.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our call today.
We began the year with a strong first-quarter performance.
We achieved financial results in line with our expectations and continue to benefit from the success of our four-pillar strategy.
Our first-quarter revenues of $215 million were up 4% year over year.
We achieved GAAP earnings of $0.26, exceeding our guidance and more than double the earnings from our first quarter 2017.
Our adjusted earnings were also $0.26, at the upper end of our guidance range and 30% higher than prior year.
The steel and aluminum tariffs that took effect during the quarter created uncertainty in the market and impacted material costs across our segments, as expected.
Market prices for steel and aluminum were up 40% and 30%, respectively, versus prior year.
That said, we are having success in mitigating the impact of these cost increases from tariffs through pricing actions by market, by segment, and by customer type.
And at the same time, we continue to work collaboratively with our customers on this issue to ensure that they remain competitive as well.
From an end market perspective, we achieved a 10% increase in sales in our Renewable Energy & Conservation segment and an 8% increase in our Industrial & Infrastructure Products segment, giving us confidence that this segment has truly turned the corner.
Revenues in our Residential Products segment were essentially flat year over year, as weather conditions impacted demand for our roofing-related ventilation products.
During the quarter, we continued to execute on our four-pillar strategy and benefited from our operational excellence programs and our innovative product initiatives.
In short, in the first quarter we achieved the financial and operational results we had laid out at the beginning of the year.
At this early point in 2018, we are on track to deliver our annual commitment to make more money at a higher rate of return with a more efficient use of capital.
I will speak more about our progress on each of our strategic pillars and provide guidance after <UNK> reviews our financials.
<UNK>.
Thank you, <UNK>, and good morning, everyone.
Let\
Thank you, <UNK>.
During the first quarter, our four-pillar strategy continued to gain traction and deliver results.
In "Operational Excellence", our first pillar, we focus on reducing complexity, adjusting costs, and simplifying our product offering through the 80/20 initiatives across the organization.
We continued to advance key projects during the quarter.
These include in-lining and market rate of demand replenishment initiatives that will improve our operating conditions as well as outsourcing initiatives for our "B" products across our businesses.
We continue to expect to realize the benefit from these projects in the latter half of 2018.
Our next step in operational excellence is to focus on trade focus selling and marketing strategies.
The trade focus process was the focus of our recently completed leadership meeting where we brought together approximately 90 leaders from across our businesses to refine the use of these tools.
Our teams are kicking off targeted projects throughout our segments to drive organic growth by developing new and innovative products that respond to our customers\
You know, not a huge impact in either.
A little bit more material in Residential.
But of the 250 basis points, maybe 1% on material (costs) in Residential.
And in Renewables, we're off 80 basis points as prices increased, closer to 30 bps on price-material.
And as we think about it going forward, we continue to work with our customers to mitigate the impact.
So we feel like we are in good shape to mitigate those impacts as we move forward.
I think overall, Dan, the information I've seen from our supply chain group across the portfolio is that they expect to fully recover all cost increases over the course of the year.
And so far after the first quarter, are well along that path.
And to be quite honest, don't get a lot of pushback from the marketplace as it's a common problem across all segments and all customers and all end markets.
So it's really just a question of the implementation schedules with the various segments, and our people are doing a nice job with it.
So don't see it as -- it's something we have to manage, as everybody does, but it's -- we are well along that path.
And we don't expect it to have a significant impact from an earnings perspective.
Yes, I will give a couple high-level comments.
And then if <UNK> wants to jump in.
The migration -- the overall -- number one, we participate in the small-end community solar, both whether it is fixed tilt or whether it is tracker.
There is a general perception that at the large scale or larger scale side that there is a rapid migration from fixed tilt to tracker that's -- we would probably support that.
We don't see that at the smaller scale.
And at the smaller scale, it is very much site-specific.
It's where it's located from a sun exposure perspective, ground conditions, wind load, snow loads as to whether or not the smaller scale opportunities really drive the economic returns for the increased cost of the more complicated tracker installation.
And obviously it has ongoing OEM costs, more material than a fixed tilt solution.
So we don't see that manifest itself in demand.
I think <UNK> would say later that our demand for fixed tilt is similar to prior years.
And we have a select group of people we continue to work with as we work and launch our tracker solution and vet out some of the refinements of engineering and installation that the guys are working through.
So it's been incremental.
From a market activity perspective relative to tariffs, and now they are debating about reversing that if they have the opportunity because Suniva basically is being sold off as parts now.
So at the top end, there may be a reduction in market opportunity in large-scale utility because of that.
We don't participate in that, so any new sale in the small-scale community solar piece that may relate to the tracker is new and different revenue and share for us.
So at this point, all that commentary, right <UNK>, manifests itself into various backlogs that show our business growing.
Yes, I mean, we are in strong demand for fixed tilt.
We have increasing customer interest in our tracker.
So while we hear those comments, we don't see it across our customer base.
So it may be relevant to a larger market and to the larger utility scale space, but that's not where we participate.
So we are not seeing that movement.
And I'd say, Dan, when <UNK> says a rising interest, it's not just a rising interest.
It's an increase in actual booked orders and backlog.
So that's where we are from a factual perspective on those related issues, I guess.
So let me address the seasonality first.
I think if you look last year in the fourth quarter, we were surprised on the upside.
We guided down and we actually came in a lot (higher).
We don't expect that to recur.
We don't --
Yes, I think the solar business and the residential business, both -- the building season got extended.
So we overachieved in both those from our expectations in the fourth quarter from when we gave guidance.
So we think we got a benefit from some of that in the fourth, which we didn't build into our model, into our forecasts.
And <UNK>, I think it's important to highlight <UNK>'s point there.
It was really that the construction season got extended as opposed to particular tactical strategic issues within either one of those segments.
I mean, both those businesses -- if the season gets extended and contractors get in on site, whether they are installing a solar racking system, fixed, or tracker is no different than whether or not a roofer wants to work in four feet of snow or not.
So when that season got extended, people were able to build longer.
And that was kind of, I guess, the overachievement in that quarter versus any particular tactical product or customer issue that took place in those quarters.
I think that's how you've got it laid out for the year to date.
Yes, that's what we are guiding.
So that's not fair to say up 4, up more, continue on.
We don't look at it that way.
Less than 50% of our sales represents material costs.
In that, there are components.
There's purchased products that make up a component of that.
But of the raw material we buy, about 70% is steel.
But it's not 70% of 50%; it would be bad math.
But for competitive reasons, <UNK>, I can't give you --
I think unlike prior years, people looked at this year as 'boy, this is really going to be difficult'.
The years -- every year in business you deal with raw material inputs, price recovery, and some people look at it from a margin recovery (perspective).
And the most difficult times (are) when you get rapid material changes in a short period of time, whether they go up or they go down.
I think the most challenging environments are when it's unique to you.
In this case, it is not unique to us or (our competitors) -- it affects everybody.
So when you go to customers, customers understand that the world has changed across the board.
And whether we are in first in line or we are number 26 in line, there are 26 people knocking on everybody's door and saying 'listen, you know what.
' The value of products all the way through the price waterfall from the user to the channel to the manufacturer, these have to go up because the cost inputs are material and significant and nobody in that anywhere in the waterfall can uniquely absorb them.
So to your opening point is the market is a lot more receptive to dealing with it and dealing with it in a timely and efficient manner.
Because it really references not just the profitability, but the sustainability of the whole supply chain all the way to the end user who is going to swing the hammer.
So I think that's been a big part.
Nobody out in the industry is an outlier asking for price increases for whatever they have done for in the past.
And then we've got a fairly sophisticated sales and marketing group that is close to their customers and I think they've done an exceptional job.
And to be quite honest, have in the past.
And we are out in front of a lot of this.
These conversations, some can take place and be enacted on the next day, some take 120 days because of relationship contracts and things like that, in various forms.
I would say that we've got a little bit -- 30 to a quarter -- a 90-day head start on the year to make sure we are well positioned, as we said in our prior calls.
So I think to date, we feel as we go through the details of that math by product, by customer type, we feel pretty confident as we rolled up and re-forecasted Q2 and maintained our guidance for full year.
Now, the other side of that is you don't know what you don't know.
As everybody knows, it's been tremendously volatile, but we think we've captured the bulk of that volatility that would be expected going forward.
So the perimeter security initiative is we've described it as really probably the path forward for our industrial group.
It's an attractive end market domestically; it's probably a $1-billion-plus opportunity.
And we are hardly participating in it today.
We are increasing our participation.
We think that over a two- or three-year period, it could transform that business and incrementally, as we move through that process.
We've historically, going back 15 years, sold product that is on the existing border fences.
I think somewhere around 50-plus miles around a couple border cities.
So it could provide upside this year, but we don't view it as something that will go from $0 to $50 million in a 3-month period.
We think that it is a two- to three-year period to penetrate the market to really build a business that is a full product line/business of meaningful size to the Corporation around it.
But it's really what we are trying to grow.
We have all the assets in place to manufacture.
We spent last year doing development work, patented systems, and started getting out in the marketplace building a pipeline of projects that we could bid on.
And that's translating into a growing backlog.
And now sort of at the end of the fourth quarter or throughout the fourth quarter, we actually saw the activity levels increase and we saw that continue in the first quarter.
So we are encouraged by growth.
But it is small today, but it carries a different margin profile because it's really an engineered solution sale.
We are not selling a truckload of material to a steel wholesaler.
We are selling a finished perimeter security system either to a property owner, whether that's a transportation authority, a train depot, an electric utility.
Or we are selling it to the contractor who has got the project -- who has the work to expand and do some work at one of those facilities.
Yes.
And I would say as we continue to demonstrate traction in the area, the perimeter security, the fencing piece, for a lack of a better term, is one component of that $1 billion opportunity.
There are associated products that go into an installation, whether they be bollards or gates, primarily as sort of hard materials.
And then there is monitoring equipment, detection equipment, surveillance equipment that also gets all wrapped up into a high-end security installation from a hardening-up perspective.
So we play in one piece of that value proposition today on a more direct basis than we've ever done before.
And as we continue to demonstrate traction with this new product, which is being very well received by both the buyers, the developers of the project, the electrical utility companies, and some of the other examples <UNK> gave.
But more importantly, the ease of installation by the contractors who have to do the work.
Whether it's the replacing of the poles and the fencing and the integrated wiring systems, we've designed our installation to take time out from a contractor's perspective because we saw that that was where all the pain was.
And as I highlighted in my recent -- in our call, I did visit a couple shows.
One at the end of last year, late December in the South and then a Vegas show just recently.
And in both cases, I spent time talking to about a dozen contractors, half of who had already done installations.
And the feedback was is that 'boy, if I used to spend two weeks doing this, I'm spending less than half my time doing this (now).
I can get on and off the site in a lot more timely way'.
So for the fencing piece, which is what we are focused in on, we think we've got the right type of solution.
We will see where it goes over the course of the year as to whether or not there's a way we can accelerate it from an acquisition perspective.
Yes.
Let me start and I will let <UNK> give you the numbers.
I would say that mix was a key issue.
If you look at where we landed, we probably did a little less in the Residential Building Products group as it related to ventilation products and the Postal group versus the prior year.
And they tend to carry high rates of return and high margins.
And they were offset by the Renewable Energy & Conservation group and the Industrial & Infrastructure group.
And not necessarily because they carry -- they do carry on an annualized basis lower margins, but just by historical seasonality perspective, their worst time of year on a margin profile perspective just on a volume-related basis tends to be the first quarter.
So when you put those two together, that was probably the number one.
The lag in price-raw material was probably, <UNK>, number two behind that.
Yes.
And I would say, Walt, it's like two-thirds mix, one-third price.
Is that the math.
That's about the math, yes.
I think on both points, mix becomes more normalized.
And I think obviously we begin to -- the issue of price, if there is a lag, that obviously becomes minimized as well as we go forward.
And that's how we arrived at our Q2 guidance, is making sure that we see that traction and we do.
You know, so between 2% and 4%, there is not a lot of growth.
But you know -- and we are early in the year.
But right now, I would say probably we are looking at it half volume, half price.
And it's going to vary by customer and product and project and everything else.
So there's probably going to be different businesses that have a different mix, but I think in total, we think it's about half and half as we roll through the year.
And if you look at that and you say, well, that math would suggest you are only going to be up if it was up -- if you were going to be up 4% on organic growth unit volume, you know, and half of that is price, then really what you are seeing is coming into the lower end of your guidance on the growth side for the core business in the absence of price.
I think that would be -- you could view that as conservative, I guess, because that would be the lower end of what we said.
But we had some pricing.
I mean, so I just think --
You had price in your original guidance.
So I just look at it as it's still early in the year, we came out of a strong first quarter, we like the way the second quarter and rest of the year looks, but we just finished April.
Yes.
And I think to our earlier comment -- I can't remember if it was <UNK> or Dan -- we are certainly not counting on the same extended season in the fourth quarter.
We are kind of forecasting a more typical fourth quarter in terms of how long the season lasts.
If that repeats itself, like 2017, then obviously we will have an opportunity to sell more product to more people before the close of the year.
But we haven't counted on that in our current guidance.
It seems good to us, Walt.
We saw order volumes return to more normalized level in April.
And it really -- so if you think about the weather pattern in the country, it was sort of cold and rainy in the South and the West, and maybe mid-March that started to clear.
And so we saw those regions pick up first, which normally might've been a month and a half, a month earlier.
And then now, I mean, we even have spring in Buffalo today.
So as the year progresses, we think that maybe that, call it a longer or late winter, hopefully is behind us and we are seeing the activity levels return to normal.
So we feel pretty good about that.
Demand from customers has been strong.
I think the thing that I think about on the ventilation and the roofing accessories side is always the unknown of labor.
We think there is a lot of demand out there for repair and remodel.
The question will be how much and how quickly can it be addressed, given the lack of labor maybe in some markets.
Thank you for participating in the call.
We look forward to catching up to you next quarter.
Thank you.
