Good question and it hasn't come up yet, <UNK>.
I think it's just a mixture -- we are using a very opportunistic allocated capital approach, so we are really not focusing on particular lines of business, and so we are just looking at them account-by-account trying to make sure that we understand each one both quantitatively and qualitatively.
And since we are, I think, in a pretty good position as a startup, we can be very selective, but it is not driven by any particular line or coverage type.
Yes, I don't really have a precise number.
It was a good mix, in that 50/50 range give or take, but I don't think you should read anything into that in terms of run rate or anything as we do look at it opportunistically.
No, I think that issue is a little bit separate, so, again, it's just looking at the reserves following a consistent process and looking at it from a quarter-to-quarter basis.
So that was a little bit different.
Following the normal process, but mostly case in the D&O.
Certainly there was nothing -- again, nothing that was special that was in there following our normal process.
I would say that it was spread over -- actually that one was spread over some pretty evenly accident years.
So you are looking at 2015, 2014, 2013 about $4 million for really each one of those and $4 million per year and then it was $3 million for accident year 2013 and prior.
So it was really just following our standard process and again, it's kind of tough.
As we are growing it, it's still I will say young, but you've got a lot of new policies coming in and we are just being conservative in the way we set our picks there.
In terms of our share count, it's about 166 million, <UNK>.
166 million.
Thank you, <UNK>; and thank you so much for your comments regarding us.
Thank you.
It means a lot.
Thank you, Jessa.
Before we end, I did want to correct one set of numbers that I gave in answer to Paul <UNK>'s question.
I picked up the wrong line and in terms, Paul, of the auto current accident year combined, or loss ratios before catastrophes, it's 79.1 for the current quarter, 81.6 same quarter a year ago, but my comments reflected the auto.
And with that, I'd like to thank all of you for joining us today.
We hope to see some of you at our annual shareholders meeting Saturday at the Cincinnati Art Museum.
Others are welcome to listen to our webcast of the meeting.
It's available at cinfin.com/investors and we look forward to speaking with you again on our second-quarter call.
Thank you very much.
