We can say that year-to-date number is pretty solid.
Focus on the year-to-date, not the quarter.
This is <UNK>.
I don't know if we have too many of the co-ops closing in the states we're doing in the marketplace.
We price our products at a point where we thought they would be competitive and yet remain profitable.
And I would also want to make sure that people understand it's not just the premium, it's also things like co-pays, deductibles, et cetera that really roll in to what a competitive financial package is.
We think we're well positioned for the marketplace going in to next year.
This is <UNK>.
I think that clearly incumbents in a state like Georgia have an advantage.
You're operating there.
You've got your networks in place.
You're well know both to the state and to the providers.
That clearly played in to it.
I don't want to comment on Iowa.
We are happy with the results in Michigan.
I wouldn't read a whole lot in to it.
There were three RFPs in three different states with a lot of different criteria, so it's hard to draw conclusions across them.
Well, we didn't do the acquisition because of the RFPs.
We did it because we believed there's an overall trend in the Medicaid program to integrate and coordinate behavioral health with the medical benefits, and that's a long-term trend.
At the same time in many states where we're being asked to manage those benefits, we felt it was prudent for us to have a stronger presence in the behavioral health area and also to have providers that we can draw on.
So Providence is largely a provider organization, providing care to Medicaid beneficiaries.
It matches very well with our business and our strategy.
Ana, we haven't changed our thinking in terms of where we want to be in 2017.
Well, this is <UNK>.
We've not provided any guidance on what we think our 2016 marketplace is going to look like.
It's really hard to tell.
We've put together what we think are competitive rates.
We remain in operations in all the states where we had operations last year.
We have slightly expanded our footprint by adding a few new counties.
But remember too that the primary goal of our entering in to the marketplace was to provide continuity of care for people that had been on Medicaid and maybe no longer qualified and have become uninsured as a result, and that continues to be the strategy.
If you look at our marketplace enrollment, it's largely people below 250% of poverty.
This is <UNK>.
You're working way too hard if you start this by saying good morning.
(Laughter) We don't have the granular detail in terms of why people roll off the marketplace during the third quarter.
There is no indication on our part.
I don't believe that they give us reasons why people drop off, whether it's -- whatever you [assign it] to.
The answer is no.
It's the launch in the MMP in Texas, <UNK>, that's picking up speed.
So we will run the [MCR] (multiple-speakers) initial stages.
Correct.
This is <UNK>.
It's hard to say at this point, because we haven't closed the acquisition.
The first thing we've got to do is close.
And then we can get in there and begin talking to them about how we can make better use of their services, but that is our goal.
I just can't give you any idea on the timing.
Certainly.
That's a big portion of it.
Yes.
We thought we'd have it by the end of the third quarter.
<UNK>, we're hoping we'll have it by the end of the year.
I recall for last time it was about 15 months before we got clarity.
So if they can get it to us by the end of the year it will be a step in the right direction.
All right.
Thank you, everyone.
We appreciate you joining the call.
It was a good quarter and we look forward to talking to you at the next earnings release.
