Thank you.
I don't know if I have percentages for you, <UNK>, but --
Yes.
But there are a number of places where it's pretty productive right now.
Probably the most productive area is EnerGov.
So EnerGov, when we bought them, we kept their direct sales channel in that space, and so if a large county comes out for their solutions, they handle that as they did before on a direct basis, but we also trained our other sales channels on their products, product presentation, and so we do what is a lot of incremental business through our other sales channels, I guess a lot of it through the Munis sales channel.
A lot of their solutions include EnerGov now, and it's a pretty big-ticket item.
So if they sell a $500,000 Munis license, it might drag a $200,000 license for EnerGov, so that would be an example where it's very active and it's very incremental and it also improves our competitive position, so you'll never know for certain, but that could've been a deal that maybe Munis wouldn't have won without it, so all good stuff and all the kinds of things we're trying to accomplish with those types of acquisitions.
On our criminal justice side, now, which we've talked a lot about our objectives there, which we'll deliver a solution that's different than exists in that marketplace, so -- and it isn't just the big ticket items, so New World's public safety and obviously our Odyssey system, as they combine and will drive synergies there, but the SoftCode solution that we acquired a couple of years ago is in this whole alliance, the Brazos system, which is mobile devices and applications in the field.
That's a lot of potential.
So it's happening.
It helps in a lot of ways, obviously, this incremental revenue.
It improves the competitiveness of the core system by adding on these other extensions, and we do see more of it.
If you look historically at Tyler, we have this broad offering that really nobody else has, but we have focused on those individual applications individually in this -- call it the first phase of Tyler's product strategy.
The next phase of the strategy does have a lot more focus on building horizontal, use of these different applications, adding benefits and value to using multiple products.
And so we talked about I think last quarter creating an incremental R&D team that's led by Jeff Green, that focuses on those synergies, and there's a lot of that now so that it's not just having two products from the Tyler family, but really being able to specifically identify tangible advantages to having multiple Tyler suites.
All right.
Thanks, <UNK>.
Okay.
Well, thank you, Gail, and thank everybody for joining us on today's call.
If you do have any further questions, feel free to reach out to <UNK> or myself.
Thanks again.
Have a good day.
