1.
5%.
1.
5%.
Okay.
And then just from going to the new lease deals that you guys signed in the quarter, looks like tenant improvements on a per year basis were down relatively significantly.
Is there anything specifically going on there.
Or is that just a function of the pool (inaudible).
Chris, that's just a function of what we leased this time.
I don't think there's any indication there.
There were -- there was only 1 box included in the number.
So that does impact it.
Generally, the boxes do have a higher allowance.
And then on the renewals for the quarter, the volume was the highest in at least 5 years.
Is anything specifically going on there as it relates to just the level of activity.
Or how you're going at it.
Or is it just a timing issue in terms of just (inaudible) the first quarter.
It's just a timing issue.
We do incent our people to lease space, and they do lease it as quickly as possible.
But we're working on those last year, too.
It's not like we just started working on them this quarter.
So we're leasing them as fast as we can and as fast as the retailers want to lease space.
I'm sorry, <UNK> <UNK>, you broke up a little bit.
Can you say that again, please.
Not particularly.
We went back and looked at all of the leases.
There really wasn't a specific lease driving plus or minus the vast majority of them are positive leases.
Our expectation is, is that on the total rent growth, we would be in the low-single digits, maybe low-double digits going over the next several quarters.
So I don't think we'll get back to these huge numbers, high 20s, 30% increases that we had in new leases, a couple of -- a year or so ago, but I think these numbers are very, very positive.
<UNK> <UNK>, it's not, it's just timing.
When we -- when they report and when we account for it, the total percentage rent, I think, is less than $4 million, about $3 million.
So it's obviously not a big number.
It's certainly down a small amount from the same quarter of the last year (inaudible) from the previous quarter because of the way you have to account for it, you have to stop your accrual and (inaudible).
So quarter-over-quarter.
.
Thank you, Brandon, and thanks to everybody on the call.
We'll be around later if there are more questions.
Look forward to seeing many of you at ICSC RECon or NAREIT.
Thanks, again, for your interest.
Have a great day.
