Another good question, <UNK>.
We made great progresses in industry last year so we talked about it on the call probably this time last year, but there hadn't been as nearly -- I can't remember if there was progress or if we were just talking about making progress at that point.
But there was a nice reduction in inventory and it's a trend that's happening on a global basis.
You're exactly right.
It's definitely positive for the industry, but you could go too far.
Not -- I don't think there's any risk of that.
I do think it favors companies like Callaway with our quick turnaround and global reach and the great custom fitting capabilities.
You see us going up 24% in our custom fitting business in the US.
That's a great fit for this change in environment and I think we'll thrive and be able to support it and are we all the way through it, are we partway through it.
It's hard to be sure.
People are still talking about lowering overall inventories out there so we're not all the way through it, but inventory levels are down and we're at least partway through it, if not more than part.
So I can't really predict what that end point is, but I know we're making good progress there and I think it will be a good thing in the long run.
Thank you.
Yes, that's a great insider question there that somebody knows the industry, <UNK>.
That -- at some places we won't be able to, but we'll show nice progress.
We're increasing our staff position and green grass is in general a lagging indicator.
In other words, they take less risk on inventory.
So when we launched Chrome Soft in 2015 and shipped in February of 2015 and we're trying to sell it in the fall, we were in telling them the story about how we finally got it right and this was going to be the ball that changed the ball and, quite frankly, the green grass guys probably thought yes, I have heard that before and so it was a very hard sell.
And our distribution at green grass was a bit of a slugfest.
Now as we go into green grass they will have seen that the Chrome Soft performed beautifully and that consumers were asking for it and it was the fastest growing ball in the category last year and so it will be easier as we become a proven player, momentum is a great ally in that perspective and we are growing the green grass so I expect us to make progress, I like the direction.
There will still be some accounts that have some very strong brand (inaudible) we won't get into, but -- and I'm already seeing we are number two in market share and we should be number two and growing in our distribution strength at green grass as well.
Yes.
Well, first I think I got to get you playing it, <UNK>, but assuming that that may take me awhile.
The -- yes, that will help.
And you may or may not have seen Tom Watson played it in his debut with us in Hawaii and he created some interest and excitement about it.
And we have seen accounts that have been exclusive to other brands, have never brought in a Callaway ball and they have called their rep begrudgingly needing to bring in what they call the soccer ball.
And so we will look for opportunities to have it gain more exposure, including potentially some tour play and it's not an overwhelming portion of our business right now, but it's a fun little niche that you never know if it did catch on it certainly differentiated.
We have a 100% market share of those that like us soccer ball (inaudible).
Thanks, <UNK>.
Appreciate it.
I want to just thank everybody for dialing in today to the Callaway team.
Great job on a strong 2015 and looking forward to keeping it going in 2016.
Thank you for the call.
