Well, the point-of-sales system should be fully rolled out by August, September.
Like any roll out, you've go to be very careful that we don't go too far to forget the training that's required, so a risk mitigant we have is we're going to parallel park both point-of-sale systems so that we don't put risk into the business.
So on the point of sale, it will probably be -- start emerging towards the next financial year onwards.
All the improvements that we are looking for, <UNK>, are actually around productivity.
Can we actually get better at serving our customers more quickly and understand them better.
Which should mean that we should have a much more efficient system, so it is more an operating leverage-type outcome.
If we can reduce cost and increase the top line, that's the ultimate goal from any technology solution that would come through and that's what we'd be aiming for.
We know that, for instance, the point-of-sale system, we have not really changed our point-of-sale system for 15 years so we know that it is a non-current type system, which is potentially holding us back with too many clicks to get through to the end of the transaction.
So a lot of it is about efficiency and productivity.
You will see those appear both through the cost line as well as through the revenue line.
There's a lot of uncertainty down in Mexico, and it was in the run-up to the elections as well with some of the rhetoric that was going on.
As I mentioned previously with the rhetoric cause -- it's the valuation of the peso and that increased the repatriations into Mexico.
So we saw a number of our consumers have more cash in their hand than we have seen for a while so the sales were relatively strong.
We think the increase in the gasoline prices will probably take some of the cash out of the hand of the consumer and provide opportunities for us to link to the consumer.
It is it still a bit early to see.
There's another hike that's just come through.
So we will probably know more in the next 30 or 60 days as our customers typically take that period of time to adjust to such pricing changes that affect their wallet.
So we think there's some mildly positive attributes to what is happening, but it's a fairly uncertain market down there at the moment.
We will just have to play a wait and see game, but we think there might be some positives out of it.
Hi, <UNK>, it is <UNK> here.
We are expecting through the 2017 year, expecting about $42.5 million in principal payments to come in and $3.2 million in interest payments over the next 12 months.
In the last quarter.
Yes.
Yes, that's correct, <UNK>.
We've got a 32% equity hold in Cash Converters International in Australia, and we equity account their profit.
And the equity account of profit this year was down on last year for the first quarter.
So that's what flows through in that line.
That's the bulk of it.
It depends on their results, <UNK>.
We are more a recipient of that outcome.
No, because you have currency impact in there as well.
So it's not only the business but the currency impact.
So for this year, it will be probably more towards -- the first half will probably have a higher run rate than the second half.
So you will see a gradual slide.
And some of the regulatory impacts that have occurred in Australia will actually slow the earnings stream more towards the second half of the year.
Are you talking about cash converters are you talking about -- .
Typically, the first half of the year is sales season and the second half is the loan.
We pick up on the loan, so you will have a bit more of a skew towards the first half with a bit more of a slowing in the second half.
<UNK>, all we can do is point you to consensus, we don't give guidance in these -- you can pick up the analyst results and you can average that out.
And that's the consensus and we don't comment any further than that.
<UNK>, thanks for reinforcing that with me, but yes, I am the Chairman of that.
It is -- what's happening in Australia with -- like the payday lendings not too similar to what's happening in all developed countries.
They are they putting some constraints on that which we will see a slowing in the income as they move away from the short-term lending more into the medium-term lending.
So, I think over the period of time it should improve, but in the short term they will have a slowdown while they transition their book.
Thanks, operator.
I would like to thank everyone who dialed in or logged into the webcast for their participation today.
<UNK> and <UNK> are around for questions later on, so this concludes our call.
Thanks for dialing in for the interest in the Company and have a great day.
