This is a very hard question to answer.
And the fact of the matter is, no, we don't know how to answer to that question, because it's rather [speculative].
And because we, I mean, many of the designs are very sole source designs for a particular OEM.
So obviously, there is no switch around.
Having said, from the bigger macroscopic system, doesn't mean that that design, that opportunity doesn't disappear to somebody else, who are able to find a different set of boxes, as opposed to components.
So it's something we are not able to predict, or for that matter, estimate.
No, it's a combination of several factors.
One is, you know our overall business model in this Company, and it applies across a multiple of product lines we sell, franchise as I call it, is we compete basically on technology.
We have technology.
I mean, we are a working example of lots and lots of technology, in various areas -- not all areas, but in various areas, that we feel we are very strong in, technology includes engineers and IP.
And we pride ourselves in therefore, using that technology to create, develop products which are very differentiated for leading customers in the market we participate in.
We really do.
And those customers, we take very seriously, we are very loyal.
We go 100% in for the customer, and we invest to develop those products.
In return, we ask for certainty.
We ask for partnerships.
And we tend to like to enter into long-term strategic partnership with a customer, where they will continue to use us for future generations of products, which enables us to continue to invest into developing technology and product, which enables them to be successful.
And that investment is not just technology, in the case of the 8-K filing -- the filing, the 10-K filing, sorry, that we talked about.
It was also capacity, unique capacity in FBAR.
So it fits very, very nicely.
But this is not an unusual kind of transaction.
We do that with many of our major strategic customers, who we like to call partners, but that will be rather presumptuous, because they are customer, and we are the supplier.
But we give them technology, we give them value.
And we hope we do enough of that, that it will sign up for long term partnership with us, which enables us to continue to invest, and sustain that franchise as we call it.
And that's just a manifestation of one of many [development].
Thank you.
