Concerning the Lilly relationship, you have to remember that the way it works is we will be asked at some point when the program is going to Phase 3 to either obtain or not the co-financing of the Phase 3.
Before that, we are literally in a position where we give our opinion and our advice, but we are really not in any kind of decision-making position.
I cannot comment on their willingness to go for any of these indications.
As you said, I think we are dealing with a very broad list of possible indications for this mechanism.
Lilly, and we are discussing this with them, is looking in multiple places where baricitinib could be applied.
The decision to drop diabetic nephropathy recently is something that was not a huge surprise from our side.
On financial health, you can see the numbers yourself.
We are in a position where the growth of the top line is giving us a lot of flexibility to invest in our own portfolio and if Lilly would decide to go in an additional indication, which I wish, we would be able to do the co-funding.
To give you an idea from last year to this year in terms of co-funding, the Lilly program has gone down because of the cycle in rheumatoid arthritis.
If we were to go in a new indication, there would be no problem to do that.
The way we are thinking of our resource allocation is obviously top line growth is what is giving us all of these opportunities.
We spoke about ruxolitinib but we have also now hopefully if baricitinib is approved next year there would be a new line of top line growth from the royalties and some of the milestones from Lilly.
We think about portfolio kinetics, how to move the portfolio as fast as possible in the right indication, obviously, based on the scientific understanding we have.
We are not limiting our clinical program because of resource constraints at this point.
Based on what you have seen this quarter you can see we have room to maneuver and obviously stay in a positive cash flow from operations.
That's important because that is what makes us stable from the financial standpoint and able to do this operation.
Of those 3 criteria that we are using and up to now it has been something we have been able to manage very positively.
So the answer is yes if there were opportunities to do co-funding with Lilly, we would probably participate assuming the indication is reasonable.
Okay.
Thank you for your time today and for your questions.
I'll just conclude saying that we look forward to providing you with further updates with the Q3 call in early November for now thank you and goodbye.
