<UNK>, so the first thing, I will answer the first part of that.
There were no change in the number of days for us in Q1 versus Q1 of last year.
So they both stayed the same that way.
<UNK>, this is <UNK> <UNK>.
I'll address the second half of your question.
As <UNK> alluded to, we've hired a VP of sales for the robotics division, and we will be looking for a senior executive for the trauma divisions.
Hope to have that slot filled by the third quarter.
And they're going to be beginning their efforts to build out field sales management and then go into the rep level towards the end of this year.
At this point, we're not going to share any target numbers with you but we will keep you posted as we move through.
Tough to answer in the hypothetical sense, but you would think that if you were to have less attrition and more on-boarding I would think that we would deliver higher numbers.
I would always shoot to say they would be in line or better than previous quarters, Kaila.
I think the way to answer that right now is, again, as we look to exit this year at 7% guidance, as we have said, we would talk about the remainder of those years needing a CAGR for the sales of spine to be roughly 10% to 10.5% CAGR.
Right now, I do not think I'm going to set 2017 guidance, I want to get another quarter under our belt, I want to look and analyze where we are with this.
So I guess my advice to the Street would be, let's talk separately and understand where those models are falling out.
But I'm not ready to make a commitment to that level for 2017.
<UNK>, you know we give annual guidance and we feel really comfortable about our annual guidance.
We don't want to comment on quarters.
We are working really hard to make sure that we can improve on our sales force expansion.
And that's all I'm willing to say at this point.
Absolutely.
We had a strong quarter of product introductions.
We launched six products in the quarter, and we have several more in the pipeline with the agency as well as in production.
And we are looking forward to having an extremely strong product introduction year this year.
In terms of trauma, that is correct.
We're going to be going to the FDA for sure by the third quarter with our initial trauma products, and hopefully get through the FDA pretty quickly.
So we will be looking to hire reps early in 2017.
For the imaging, navigation, and robotics division we will be hiring reps this year.
We plan to go to the FDA in the second quarter with that product.
And again, we're not sure how long it will take to get through, but we will be hiring at the rep level for that division during this year.
Thank you for your question, <UNK>.
Not really, I do not think that there's any new information in this article.
It is an article with an extremely small number of patients, and a lot of confounding variables within those patients.
But surgeons to date don't fuse everyone with spondylolisthesis.
It's always defined with the amount of instability that a patient has.
So there is not really a whole lot of new information, and I do not think this is going to affect treatment going forward.
The patients who were treated before with fusions for back pain are really no longer in the system, and that was more the controversial group subset of patients.
Spondylolisthesis patients with instability were getting fusions, and I think they will be getting fusions in the past -- in the future.
It is really spondys with less -- you have to define spondylolisthesis from grade one through grade four, and then there are so many different factors that a surgeon -- before he makes up his mind to fuse or not to fuse.
Thank you.
<UNK>, I would think it's at least the area to grow from.
And so I don't know if we will see sequential growth along those lines.
The anticipation from our model is that we would.
I don't think it's necessarily related to just the timing of distributor, but many other factors.
So, yes, I think I'm looking for a stronger Q2, and as we go forward into the full year, getting up to at least a double-digit number.
So we don't normally throw that out with our guidance, we usually just do the sales and EPS.
We don't think there will be anything special or unusual with cash flow this year that we're aware of currently.
And there's not an increase in restricted cash, rather a constriction of it, because as we settled out our DePuy litigation in Q4, we reflected that on our P&L.
In Q1, we're actually making a payment and returning some items to cash.
So that's really what you see is that restricted cash set aside for that litigation now coming back into the mainstream.
Thank you very much.
At this point, we conclude our first-quarter earnings call.
Appreciate everyone for participating, and we'll be in the office tomorrow if you have any follow-up calls, will be happy to help you out.
Thanks very much for the call.
